Greek Salad (transcribed)

Dressing
1   cup olive oil
2   tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1   tablespoon oregano
2   tablespoons fresh minced garlic
1/2 tablespoon dried basil
2   teaspoons (or to taste) salt
3   tablespoons red wine vinegar
3   tablespoons parmesan cheese

Salad
2   heads romaine lettuce, chopped
2   large tomatoes, cut in wedges
1   large cucumber, julienned
1   red onion, cut in slices
1/2 lb feta cheese, crumbled
1   cup Greek olives or regular black olive
    black pepper

Prepare dressing by blending or processing all ingredients together.
Prepare salad in a large bowl. Drizzle dressing over salad, toss to cover.

Notes: Good; easy to make. The recipe as is will make a very large salad.
We usually let people add tomatoes/feta/olives on their own. The leftover
greens keep much better that way. The viniagrette is superior!


IHOP Pumpkin Pancakes (transcribed)

2 eggs
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
4 tablespoons butter, melted
3 tablespoons canned pumpkin
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon allspice

1. Preheat a skillet over medium heat. Coat pan with oil cooking spray.
2. Combine eggs, buttermilk, butter, pumpkin, sugar, and salt in a large
   bowl. Use an electric mixer to blend ingredients.
3. Combine remaining ingredients in a small bowl. Add dry ingredients to wet
   ingredients and blend with mixer until smooth.
4. Pour the batter in 1/4 cup portions into the hot pan. Should form 5-inch
   circles.
5. When the batter stops bubbling and edges begin to harden, flip the
   pancakes. They should be dark brown. This will take from 1 to 2 minutes.
6. Flip the pancakes and cook other side for the same amount of time, until
   dark brown.



CHICKEN TIKKA (transcribed)

In Indian cooking, tikka refers to chunks of meat cooked on skewers.

Active time: 1 1/2 hr Start to finish: 14 hr (includes marinating chicken and
preparing accompaniments)

3/4 teaspoon cumin seeds, toasted
3/4 teaspoon coriander seeds, toasted
2 cups whole-milk yogurt
4 garlic cloves, chopped
1 (1 1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
3 tablespoons vegetable oil plus additional for greasing pan
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
3/4 teaspoon ground turmeric
1/2 teaspoon garam masala (Indian spice mixture)
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
1/4 teaspoon cayenne
5 lb skinless boneless chicken breasts, cut into 1 1/2-inch cubes (how many people are you feeding??)

Special equipment: 20 (12-inch) wooden skewers
Accompaniments: mango and red pepper chutney and mint raita
Garnish: lime wedges

Purée all ingredients except chicken in a blender until spices are well ground.

Put chicken in a large bowl, or divide between 2 large sealable plastic bags,
and add yogurt mixture, stirring or turning to coat. Marinate chicken, covered
and chilled (turning occasionally if using bags), at least 4 hours and up to 24 hours.

Soak skewers in water 30 minutes. While skewers are soaking, bring chicken to
room temperature.

Preheat broiler and brush a broiler pan lightly with oil.

Divide chicken among skewers (about 5 cubes per skewer), leaving an 1/8-inch
space between cubes, and arrange about 5 skewers across pan. Broil chicken
about 4 inches from heat, turning over once, until browned in spots and just
cooked through, 9 to 12 minutes total.

Notes: This is really good. Feel free to go heavy on the spices; I didn't feel what I added
was in danger of overwhelming the yogurt. I just broiled the chicken pieces. It was good but
I'd have preferred using the grill. You have to make due in the Winter! Will definitely make 
this again.



Spicy Turkey Burgers

1 1/4 pounds lean ground turkey
1/2 cup mild salsa
1/2 cup finely chopped shallots
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 tablespoon chipotle-flavored hot sauce
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper

Mix together and form into 4 burgers. Cook to well-done and eat.



Stuffed Cabbage Rolls (Galumpkis)

Sweet and Sour Tomato Sauce
  Note: You might want to make a larger batch of this sauce
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, smashed
1 1/2 quarts crushed tomatoes
2 tablespoons white wine vinegar
1 tablespoon sugar
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Cabbage Rolls
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 yellow onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons tomato paste
Splash dry red wine
2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
1 pound ground beef
1 pound ground pork
1 large egg
1 1/2 cups steamed white rice
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 large heads green cabbage, about 3 pounds each

To make the sauce:
Coat a 3-quart saucepan with the oil and place over medium heat.
Add the garlic and saute for 1 minute. 
Add the tomatoes and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes.
Add the vinegar and sugar; simmer, until the sauce thickens, about 5 minutes.
Season with salt and pepper and remove from the heat.

Place a skillet over medium heat and coat with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil.
Sauté the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, until soft.
Stir in the tomato paste, a splash of wine, parsley, and 1/2 cup of the prepared 
  sweet and sour tomato sauce, mix to incorporate and then take it off the heat.
Combine the ground meat in a large mixing bowl.
Add the egg, the cooked rice, and the sauteed onion mixture.
Toss the filling together with your hands to combine, season with a generous amount 
  of salt and pepper.

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil.
Remove the large, damaged outer leaves from the cabbages and set aside.
Cut out the cores of the cabbages with a sharp knife and carefully pull off all the rest of 
  the leaves, keeping them whole and as undamaged as possible, (get rid of all the small 
  leaves and use them for coleslaw or whatever.)
Blanch the cabbage leaves in the pot of boiling water for 5 minutes, or until pliable.
Run the leaves under cool water then lay them out so you can assess just how many blankets you 
  have to wrap up the filling.
Next, carefully cut out the center vein from the leaves so they will be easier to roll up.
Take the reserved big outer leaves and lay them on the bottom of a casserole pan, let part of 
  the leaves hang out the sides of the pan. This insulation will prevent the cabbage rolls from 
  burning on the bottom when baked.
Use all the good looking leaves to make the cabbage rolls.
Put about 1/2 cup of the meat filling in the center of the cabbage and starting at what was the stem-end, 
  fold the sides in and roll up the cabbage to enclose the filling. Place the cabbage rolls side by side 
  in rows, seam-side down, in a casserole pan.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

Pour the remaining sweet and sour tomato sauce over the cabbage rolls. Fold the hanging leaves over the 
top to enclose and keep the moisture in. Drizzle the top with the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil. 
Bake for 1 hour until the meat is cooked.

Notes: Very good. Takes a good bit of work; it helps to have more than one person working, especially when 
it comes to removing cabbage leaves from the heads of cabbage. The amount of sauce made is just enough to 
do the job; more would probably be better.



STUFFED PEPPERS CHRISTINE
(Recipe by Jon's grandmother)

6 large green peppers
1 c. fast-cooking rice
1 28-oz can tomato pieces (save liquid)
1/2 lb. ground beef or venison
1 lb. bulk hot sausage
sugar, garlic salt, black pepper, Tabasco sauce
ketchup or chili sauce
brown sugar
about 3 slices uncooked bacon

Cut the tops off the green peppers.  Chop the tops to use later.  Remove seeds and guts from 
inside the peppers and parboil peppers for about 4-5 min.  Drain and cool.

Bring the tomatoes and their liquid to a boil in a fairly large saucepan.  Add the rice; stir; 
remove from heat and let stand for at least 5 min.

Brown the ground beef, sausage, and chopped green pepper tops till meat is cooked.  Pour off any 
grease. Add rice mixture to meat mixture along with seasonings to suit your taste.  Spoon into the 
green peppers, placing peppers in a shallow pan or casserole dish.

Add a healthy hunk of brown sugar to about 1/2 or 2/3 c. ketchup or chili sauce.  Spoon a bit onto 
the top of each filled pepper.  Use more or less as desired.

Now top each stuffed pepper with about half a slice of bacon.  Add about 1/2 inch of water to casserole 
dish (so bottom of peppers don't dry out/burn).  Bake at 350 for about 45 min.  If the bacon needs a little
more cooking, put the peppers under the broiler BRIEFLY.  Normally the bacon gets done in the alotted baking time.

Note: I have frequently skipped the parboiling step and stuffed the raw pepper shells. They seem to hold together 
better during the 45 minute baking time and are almost always sufficiently done (at least tender-crisp) even 
at the bottom of the pepper.


Margaritaville
Key Lime Pie

2 cups sweetened condensed milk
6 egg yolks
2/3 cup key lime juice
1 graham cracker pie shell

1. Pre-heat oven to 325 degrees.
2. Use an electric mixer on medium speed to combine sweetened condensed milk,
egg yolks, and lime juice. Mix just until ingredients are well-combined.
3. Pour filling into graham pie shell and bake on middle rack for 20 minutes
or until filling jiggles only slightly when shaken. Cool. Cover pie and chill
in refrigerator for a couple hours before serving.


Red Lobster Parrot Bay Coconut Shrimp

Pina Colada Dipping Sauce
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 cup pina colada mix
1/4 cup crushed pineapple (canned)
2 tablespoons granulated sugar

Shrimp
6 to 8 cups canola oil (as required by fryer)
12 large shrimp, peeled and deveined (about 1/2 pound)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons Captain Morgan's Parrot Bay coconut rum
1 cup panko Japanese breadcrumbs
1/2 cup shredded coconut

1. Prepare pina colada dipping sauce first by combining all the ingredients.
   Cover this and let it chill out in the fridge while you make the shrimp.
2. Heat oil to 350 degrees.
3. Measure 3/4 cup of flour into a medium bowl. In another medium bowl mix
   together the remaining 3/4 cup flour, sugar, and salt. Stir milk and rum
   into flour mixture. Let this batter stand for five minutes. While the
   batter rests, combine panko breadcrumbs and shredded coconut into a third
   medium bowl.
4. Butterfly cut each shrimp before you start the battering: Use a sharp
   knife to slice through the top of the shrimp (where the vein was) so that
   you can spread the shrimp open. Leave the tail intact.
5. To batter the shrimp, dip each one in the flour, then the wet batter, then
   coat each shrimp with the panko/coconut mixture. Arrange the shrimp on a
   plate until all of them are battered.
6. Fry the shrimp by dropping six at a time into the hot oil for 2 to 3
   minutes or until the shrimp are golden brown. Remove shrimp to a rack or
   paper towels to drain.
7. Serve shrimp with pina colada dipping sauce on the side, along with a
   small dish or your favorite salsa.



Salsa Verde

4       cups tomatillos, husked and rinsed,cut in half
1       medium onions, quartered
3       scallions, cut into 4
4       cloves garlic
1/4     cup parsley
1/2     cup chopped cilantro leaves
2       small jalapeno peppers, leave seeds in if you like it very hot
1       teaspoon salt
1       tablespoon olive oil, if serving warm

1. Drop the garlic through the feed tube of a food processor with the metal
   blade in place and motor running to chop finely (about 10 seconds.) Add the
   scallions, parsley, cilantro, and jalapeno and chop finely (about 6 pulses).
2. Add the tomatillos and salt and process until pureed, about 5 seconds.
3. Refrigerate, covered.
4. May be served warm In medium saucepan over medium heat, heat 2 tablespoon
   olive oil.
5. Add tomatillo mixture and simmer for 10 to 12 minutes, stirring
   frequently, until thickened.
6. Remove from heat and pour into serving bowl.
7. Cover and let stand 1-2 hours to blend flavors.
8. Serve warm.


Lemon Spaghetti (Everyday Italian)

1 pound spaghetti
2/3 cup olive oil
2/3 cup grated Parmesan
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice (about 3 lemons)
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon lemon zest
1/3 cup chopped fresh basil leaves

Cook the pasta in a large pot of boiling salted water until tender but still
firm to the bite, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. Meanwhile, whisk the
oil, Parmesan, and lemon juice in a large bowl to blend.

Drain the pasta, reserving 1 cup of the cooking liquid. Toss the pasta with
the lemon sauce, and the reserved cooking liquid, adding 1/4 cup at a time as
needed to moisten. Season with salt and pepper. Garnish with lemon zest and
chopped basil.


Shrimp Fra Diavolo (Everyday Italian)

1 pound large shrimp, peeled, deveined
1 teaspoon salt, plus additional as needed
1 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper flakes
3 tablespoons olive oil, plus 1 to 2 tablespoons
1 medium onion, sliced
1 (14 1/2-ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 cup dry white wine
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
3 tablespoon chopped fresh Italian parsley leaves
3 tablespoon chopped fresh basil leaves

Toss the shrimp in a medium bowl with 1 teaspoon of salt and red pepper
flakes. Heat the 3 tablespoons oil in a heavy large skillet over medium-high
heat. Add the shrimp and saute for about a minute, toss, and continue cooking
until just cooked through, about 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer the shrimp to a
large plate; set aside. Add the onion to the same skillet, adding 1 to 2
teaspoons of olive oil to the pan, if necessary, and saute until translucent,
about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes with their juices, wine, garlic, and
oregano. Simmer until the sauce thickens slightly, about 10 minutes. Return
the shrimp and any accumulated juices to the tomato mixture; toss to coat, and
cook for about a minute so the flavors meld together. Stir in the parsley and
basil. Season with more salt, to taste, and serve.


Tomato Vegetable Casserole (Everyday Italian)

1 medium potato, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 medium yam, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 red bell pepper, seeded and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 carrots, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
5 tablespoons olive oil
1 red onion, thinly sliced into rings
2 small or 1 large zucchini, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick pieces
Salt and pepper
2 large ripe tomatoes, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch thick slices
1/2 cup grated Parmesan
2 tablespoons dried Italian-style bread crumbs
Fresh basil sprigs, for garnish

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.

Toss the potato, yam, bell pepper, carrots, and 2 tablespoons of olive oil in
a 13 by 9 by 2-inch baking dish to coat. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and
toss until coated. Spread vegetables evenly over the bottom of the pan.

Arrange the onion slices evenly over the vegetable mixture. Arrange the
zucchini over the onion. Drizzle with 2 tablespoons of oil. Sprinkle with salt
and pepper. Arrange the tomato slices over the zucchini.

Stir the Parmesan and bread crumbs in a small bowl to blend. Sprinkle the
Parmesan bread crumbs over the vegetables in the baking dish. Drizzle with the
last tablespoon of olive oil.

Bake uncovered until the vegetables are tender, and the topping is golden
brown, about 40 minutes. Garnish with fresh basil sprigs, if desired.


Frittata (Good Eats)

6 eggs, beaten
1-ounce Parmesan, grated
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
Pinch salt
1 teaspoon butter
1/2 cup chopped roasted asparagus
1/2 cup chopped country ham
1 tablespoon chopped parsley leaves

Preheat oven to broil setting.

In medium size bowl, using a fork, blend together eggs, Parmesan, pepper, and
salt. Heat 12-inch non-stick, oven safe saute pan over medium high heat. Add
butter to pan and melt. Add asparagus and ham to pan and saute for 2 to 3
minutes. Pour egg mixture into pan and stir with rubber spatula. Cook for 4 to
5 minutes or until the egg mixture has set on the bottom and begins to set up
on top. Sprinkle with parsley.

Place pan into oven and broil for 3 to 4 minutes, until lightly browned and
fluffy. Remove from pan and cut into 6 servings. Serve immediately.


Macho Gazpacho Vegetable Chunk Salad (30 minute meals)

1/2 seedless cucumber, also known as English cucumber
2 vine ripe tomatoes, seeded
1 green bell pepper, seeded
1/2 red onion, peeled
4 ribs celery from the heart, including leafy tops
3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro leaves or flat-leaf parsley
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar
1 lime or 1/2 lemon, juiced
1 to 2 teaspoons hot sauce, for mild to medium-hot heat level (recommended: Tabasco)
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, eyeball the amount
Coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper

Cut cucumber, tomatoes, pepper, onion and celery into bite-sized chunks.
Combine vegetable in a bowl. Sprinkle cilantro or parsley over the vegetables.
Combine vinegar, lime or lemon juice and hot sauce in a small bowl. Whisk in
extra-virgin olive oil in a slow stream. Pour dressing down over the salad and
toss. Season salad with salt and pepper and serve.


Portuguese Chourico and Kale Soup (30 minute meals)

2 tablespoons (2 turns around the pan) extra-virgin olive oil
3 medium white waxy potatoes, like yukon golds, peeled and diced
2 medium onions, chopped
4 to 6 cloves garlic, chopped
2 bay leaves, fresh or dried
1 pound kale, coarsely chopped
Coarse salt and pepper
1 (15-ounce) can garbanzos (chick peas), drained and rinsed
1 can diced tomatoes
1 pound diced chourico, casing removed
1 quart chicken broth
Warm, crusty bread

Heat oil in a deep pot over medium high heat. Add potatoes and onions, cover
and cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Add garlic, bay leaves, and kale to the pot. Cover pot and wilt greens 2
minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Add beans, tomatoes, chourico, and broth
to the pot and bring soup to a full boil. Reduce heat back to medium and cook
5 to 10 minutes longer or until potatoes are tender.



Moldavian Potato, Feta and Scallion Salad

This Salata de Cartofi cu Brinza is a delightful alternative to traditional
potato salad. The recipe calls for red skinned potatoes, but it's grand with
others too. Originally from Please to the Table, a Russian Cookbook — Jul 23,
2004

6     medium red potatoes
1/3   cup olive oil
2     cloves garlic, crushed in a garlic press
1     cup feta cheese, crumbled
1/2   cup scallions, finely chopped
3     tablespoons red wine vinegar
2     tablespoons finely chopped dill
      salt & freshly ground black pepper
6     black olives or 6 slices roasted red peppers (optional)

1. Clean and cook potatoes in boiling water until tender, 18-20 minutes.
2. Chop, press and crumble other ingredients.
3. Cool potatoes until they can be handled, then dice into 3/4 inch cubes.
4. Toss with olive oil and garlic, then let fully cool to room temperature.
5. Add feta and scallions and drizzle with vinegar.
6. Add dill, salt& pepper, and toss gently.
7. Let rest for at least 1 hour to allow flavors to mingle.
8. Add optional garnish and serve.

Notes: A really great potato salad variant. No mayo needed! We substituted some diced
red onion for the scallions, which seemed to be a fine addition. When assembled everything
has a great savory taste.



Irish Rutabagas(turnips) with Carmelized Onions

2 lbs rutabagas, peeled and cut into 3/4 inch cubes
salt and pepper
4-8 tablespoons butter

1 lb onions
2-3 tablespoons olive oil

finely chopped parsley

1. Heat Olive oil in a heavy skillet add the onions, cook over low heat
   for approximately 45 minutes or until they are golden and carmelized.
2. Meanwhile boil the rutabagas in salted water, cook until soft, drain
   and mash well then beat in the butter.
3. Stir in the carmelized onions, taste and adjust seasoning.
4. Serve piping hot (reheat in the oven if necessary).


Herb Rub for Lamb

8   cloves   garlic
2   tablespoons chopped fresh thyme leaves
2   tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary leaves
2   tablespoons chopped fresh parsley leaves
1/2 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
1   tablespoon coarse salt (such as kosher or sea)
3   tablespoons olive oil

Finely chop/mince garlic, combine with other ingredients. Cut slits into lamb,
rub the herb mixture over the lamb and into the slits. Allow to sit at room
temperature for 1 hour before cooking.

Notes: Good - I didn't have time to let it sit on the lamb for an hour, so the
overall flavor impact was a bit less. I'd consider putting the rub on the
lamb and refrigerating it for a couple of hours/overnight.


Roast Leg of Lamb

1  leg of lamb (about 4lbs in weight)
   malt vinegar
1  clove garlic, thinly sliced
1  sprig fresh rosemary
2  anchovy fillets, cut into slivers
1  tablespoon olive oil
1  cup red wine
2  teaspoons red currant jelly

1. Sprinkle the lamb joint with malt vinegar and thoroughly dry it.
2. Using a sharp knife, make a series of deep cuts all over the meat.
3. Stuff a slice of garlic, a couple of rosemary leaves and a sliver of
   anchovy into each cut, pushing them deep into the meat.
4. Rub the olive oil all over the lamb joint.
5. Place a roasting tin into the oven and preheat to very hot (220 C).
6. Place the lamb joint in the roasting tin and cook for 15 minutes per pound
   with 15 minutes over (reduce the cooking time by 10-15 minutes if you
   prefer a pinker joint).
7. About half an hour before the end of cooking, pour half the wine over the
   joint.
8. Remove the lamb from the oven and put it in a warm place to set.
9. Meanwhile, deglaze the roasting tin with the remaining wine scraping with
   a metal spoon to incorporate all the meat juices.
10. Add the redcurrent jelly and stir to disolve.
11. Strain the juices into a pan and add some of the water you have cooked
    the vegetables in (thickening with cornflour- if liked) and bring to the
    boil.
12. Carve the lamb into thick slices and serve with new potatoes, vichy
    carrots and peas accompanied with mint sauce and the gravy.




Gyro Meat

1      lb   lean ground lamb (I sometimes add beef)
2      cloves garlic (crushed)
1 1/2  teaspoons dried oregano (crushed)
1      teaspoon onion powder
1      teaspoon salt
3/4    teaspoon pepper

1. Combine ingredients in a bowl, and shape into 1/2 inch thick patties.
2. Broil 8-10 minutes until no longer pink.
3. Slice thinly and serve with pita bread, sliced tomatoes, thinly sliced
   onion, cucumber yogurt sauce.


Baba Ghanoush

1     large   eggplants
1/4   cup tahini, plus more as needed
3     cloves garlic, minced
1/4   cup fresh lemon juice, plus more as needed
1     pinch ground cumin
      salt, to taste
1     tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1     tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
1/4   cup brine-cured black olives, such as kalamata

1. Prepare a medium-hot fire in a charcoal grill.
2. Preheat an oven to 375°F.
3. Prick the eggplant with a fork in several places and place on the grill
   rack 4 to 5 inches from the fire.
4. Grill, turning frequently, until the skin blackens and blisters and the
   flesh just begins to feel soft, 10 to 15 minutes.
5. Transfer the eggplant to a baking sheet and bake until very soft, 15 to 20
   minutes.
6. Remove from the oven, let cool slightly, and peel off and discard the skin.
7. Place the eggplant flesh in a bowl.
8. Using a fork, mash the eggplant to a paste.
9. Add the 1/4 cup tahini, the garlic, the 1/4 cup lemon juice and the cumin
   and mix well.
10. Season with salt, then taste and add more tahini and/or lemon juice, if
    needed.
11. Transfer the mixture to a serving bowl and spread with the back of a
    spoon to form a shallow well.
12. Drizzle the olive oil over the top and sprinkle with the parsley.
13. Place the olives around the sides.
14. Serve at room temperature.


Roasted Asparagus with Feta

1 3/4 - 2       lbs fresh crisp   asparagus
1/4             cup olive oil
4               cloves garlic, minced
1               teaspoon lemons, zest of
1/2             teaspoon dried oregano
1/4             teaspoon red pepper flakes
                kosher salt (to taste)
                fresh ground black pepper (to taste)
1-2             tablespoon chopped fresh Italian parsley
3-4             ounces crumbled feta cheese
1               lemon (juice of, no seeds)

1. Preheat oven to 400F.
2. Heat olive oil, minced garlic, lemon zest, oregano, and red pepper flakes
in a small pan over low heat until garlic becomes golden and oil becomes
fragrant; remove from heat and allow to cool.
3. Bend asparagus gently until it breaks at a natural point and discard ends.
4. Toss asparagus pieces with infused olive oil and place in a single layer
on a baking sheet (one with a side edge).
5. Season asparagus with salt and pepper.
6. Sprinkle asparagus with crumbled feta cheese.
7. Roast at 400F for 12 minutes or until cooked to your liking.
8. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and squeeze the lemons over the asparagus,
being careful to catch the seeds.
9. Serve hot.

Notes: Wonderful! The tastes are complex, layered, and go together very
nicely. Be sure not to let the asparagus roast for too long; 8 minutes seemed
to be plenty when I made this dish.



Baked Mushrooms Stuffed with Crabmeat Imperial

1 cup mayonnaise
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon hot red pepper sauce
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
1 tablespoon butter
1/4 cup finely chopped red or yellow bell peppers
1/4 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 cup finely chopped red onions
2 tablespoons minced green onions
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced fresh parsley
1 teaspoon minced fresh dill
1 pound lump crabmeat, picked over to remove any cartilage
1/4 to 1/2 cup grated Parmesan
Fresh chives, garnish

With cremini mushroom caps:
36 cremini mushrooms, wiped clean and stems removed

With portobello mushrooms:
6 large portobello mushrooms, wiped clean and stems removed
1/4 cup olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

In a large bowl, combine the mayonnaise, mustard, lemon juice, pepper sauce,
Worcestershire, salt, and cayenne. Stir until well blended and set aside.

In a medium skillet, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the bell
peppers, celery, and red onions, and cook, stirring, until wilted, about 2
minutes. Add the green onions and garlic, and cook, stirring, for 30 seconds.
Remove from the heat and let cool. When cool, add to the mayonnaise mixture
with the parsley and dill, and stir until blended. Gently fold in the
crabmeat.

If using the cremini mushrooms, stuff each mushroom cap with about 1
tablespoon of the crabmeat imperial mixture. Place on a baking sheet and
sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake until warmed through and bubbly on top, 8
to 12 minutes.

If using the portobello mushrooms, with a paring knife, cut out the gills on
the underside of the mushrooms and discard. Lightly oil both sides with olive
oil and season lightly with salt and pepper. Place on a baking sheet and bake
until tender, about 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and when cool enough to
handle, divide the crabmeat imperial mixture among the mushroom caps and
sprinkle with the cheese. Bake until the mixture is warmed through and bubbly
on top, 12 to 14 minutes.

Remove from the oven and place on a platter. Garnish with the fresh chives
and serve.


Wild Mushroom Sauce

2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon olive oil
3 tablespoons minced shallots
2 teaspoons minced garlic
2 pounds assorted fresh wild mushrooms, such as shiitake, oyster, woodear,
  chanterelle, or porcini, wiped clean, ends trimmed, and sliced
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 cup Madeira
1 cup veal stock, or beef stock
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon chives
1 teaspoon Essence, recipe follows
1 tablespoon chopped fresh tarragon
1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley

In a large skillet or saute pan, melt the butter and oil over medium-high
heat. Add the shallots and garlic, and cook, stirring, until soft, 1 to 2
minutes. Add the mushrooms, salt, and pepper, and cook, stirring, until the
mushrooms are wilted and start to give off their liquid, about 4 minutes. Add
the Madeira and cook, stirring, until the liquid is reduced by half, about 3
minutes. Add the veal stock and bring to a boil. Simmer, stirring, until
reduced by half and thickened, about 5 minutes. Add the cream and lemon juice,
and cook until reduced and thickened, about 3 minutes. Add the chives,
Essence, tarragon and parsley, stir well, and adjust the seasoning, to taste.
Remove from the heat.



Carrie's Couscous

2     tablespoons butter
1     medium onion, diced
2     cloves garlic, minced
10    ounces couscous
2     cups chicken broth
1     tablespoon butter
1     can diced tomatoes
2     cups spinach leaves
3/4-1 lb muenster cheese, thinly sliced

1. Melt 2 Tbls of butter in a pan, saute the onion until it's
   translucent, add the garlic and heat for about 1 minute, remove from heat
   Bring 2 cups of chicken broth to a boil with 1 Tbls of butter.
2. Add the couscous, cover and remove from heat, let sit 5 minutes.
3. After 5 minutes, add the couscous to the onions and garlic, drain and
   add tomatoes, mix together.
4. Spray a baking dish with Pam.
5. Put 1/3 of the couscous mixture in the bottom of the pan, top with
   half the spinach and 1/3 of the cheese, repeat again using 1/3 of the
   couscous, the remaining spinach and 1/3 of the cheese; the third layer is just
   couscous and cheese.
6. Bake in the oven at 375 for 20 minutes.

Notes: Very good, makes a lot!


Easy Moroccan Carrots

1    cup carrot, peeled and chopped or baby carrot
2    tablespoons olive oil or clarified butter
1    teaspoon balsamic vinegar
1    pinch salt
1    pinch black pepper
1    teaspoon honey
1/4  lemons, juice of
1    pinch cinnamon

1. steam carrots in microwave for 3-5 minutes (with a few teaspoons of water).
2. in a mixing bowl or serving bowl, combine other ingredients.
3. add steamed carrots to other ingredients and mix.
4. Note: for you indian cooks, instead of pepper/cinnamon you can use 1/2 to
   1 tsp garam masala.


TGI Friday's Black Bean Soup

2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 cup diced white onion
3/4 cup diced celery
1/2 cup diced carrot
1/4 cup diced green bell pepper
2 tablespoons minced garlic
4 15-ounce cans black beans
4 cups chicken stock
1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar
2 teaspoons chili powder
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 teaspoon cumin
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon concentrated liquid smoke (hickory)

Garnish
shredded cheddar/monterey jack cheese blend
chopped green onion

1. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan over medium/low heat. Add
onion, celery, carrot, bell pepper, and garlic to the oil and simmer slowly
(or "sweat" as it's called), for 15 minutes or until the onions are
practically clear. Keep the heat low enough that the veggies don't brown.
2. While you cook the veggies, pour the canned beans into a strainer and
rinse them under cold water.
3. Measure 3 cups of the drained and strained beans into a food processor
with 1 cup of chicken stock. Puree on high speed until smooth.
4. When the veggies are ready, pour the pureed beans, the whole beans, the
rest of the chicken stock, and every other ingredient in the list (down to
liquid smoke), to the pot. Bring mixture to a boil, then reduce heat and
simmer uncovered for 50 to 60 minutes or until soup has thickened and all the
ingredients are tender. Serve the soup topped with a couple tablespoons of the
cheese blend and a teaspoon or so of chopped green onion.


RIGATONI WITH CHEESE AND ITALIAN SAUSAGE

1/2 pound rigatoni
1/4 pound spicy Italian sausage, casing removed
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 1/2 cups prepared marinara sauce
1/2 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper
1/4 cup grated mozzarella cheese
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon chopped fresh Italian parsley
Extra-virgin olive oil

Cook rigatoni in large pot of boiling salted water until just tender but
still firm to bite, stirring occasionally. Drain pasta.

Meanwhile, preheat broiler. Cook sausage in heavy large pot over medium-high
heat until no longer pink, stirring frequently and breaking up with back of
wooden spoon. Add garlic and sauté until soft, about 2 minutes. Drain off
excess oil and return pot to medium-high heat. Stir in marinara sauce and
crushed red pepper, then pasta. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide
pasta among four 1 1/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Sprinkle mozzarella
and Parmesan over. Place in broiler until cheese melts and begins to brown,
watching closely to prevent burning, about 1 1/2 minutes. Sprinkle rigatoni
with parsley, drizzle with olive oil, and serve.



MOROCCAN BRAISED BEEF
(Serve over couscous, if desired)

3 tablespoons olive oil, divided
2 1/2 pounds boneless chuck roast, cut into 3/4-inch cubes
2 cups chopped onions
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 tablespoon garam masala*
1 tablespoon paprika
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 cup dry red wine
1/2 cup dry Sherry
2 cups beef broth
1 14 1/2-ounce can diced tomatoes in juice
1 1/2 cups golden raisins

Heat 2 tablespoons oil in large pot over medium-high heat. Sprinkle meat with salt and pepper.
Add meat to pot; sauté until no longer pink, about 5 minutes.
Transfer meat to bowl.
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in same pot.
Add onions; sauté until brown, about 8 minutes.
Add garlic and next 5 ingredients; stir 1 minute.
Add wine and Sherry; boil until reduced to glaze, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes.
Add broth, tomatoes with juice, and raisins; stir to blend.
Add beef and accumulated juices; bring to simmer. Reduce heat to medium-low.
Simmer uncovered until sauce is thick and beef is tender, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Season stew with salt and pepper.
(Can be made 2 days ahead. Cool slightly, chill until cold, then cover and keep chilled. Rewarm before serving.)



Garlic Roast Chicken with Rosemary and Lemon

2 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into large chunks
6 cloves garlic, crushed
3 tablespoons fresh rosemary leaves stripped from stems
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, eyeball it
1 lemon, zested and juiced
1 tablespoon grill seasoning blend (recommended: Montreal Seasoning) or, coarse salt and black pepper
1/2 cup dry white wine or chicken broth

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.

Arrange chicken in a baking dish, 9 by 13-inch. Add garlic, rosemary,
extra-virgin olive oil, lemon zest and grill seasoning or salt and pepper to
the dish. Toss and coat the chicken with all ingredients, then place in oven.
Roast 20 minutes. Add wine and lemon juice to the dish and combine with pan
juices. Return to oven and turn oven off. Let stand 5 minutes longer then
remove chicken from the oven. Place baking dish on trivet and serve, spooning
pan juices over the chicken pieces.

Notes: An excellent dish with a combination of flavors that go together very
naturally. Easy to make. We keep coming back to this recipe.



Pesto Mashed Potatoes

2 1/2 pounds small red skinned potatoes
Coarse salt
1 cup stock or chicken broth
1 cup prepared store bought pesto

Cut larger potatoes in half and leave small potatoes whole. Cover potatoes
with water and bring water to a boil. Add salt and cook until potatoes are
tender 10 to 12 minutes. Drain potatoes and return them to hot pot. Add broth
or stock and smash the potatoes up. Add pesto and smash to desired
consistency. Serve while hot.

Notes: A nice change to plain old mashed potatoes. Most people won't even need
any butter on top of these.



Sweet and Bitter Greens Salad with Gorgonzola Blue Cheese Dressing

1 heart romaine lettuce, chopped
1 bulb endive lettuce, chopped
1 bunch watercress, trimmed, 1 to 1 1/2 cups leaves
1 cup walnut pieces, toasted
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil, eyeball it
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1/2 cup Gorgonzola
1 pear, sliced
Salt and pepper

Combine the lettuce and walnuts. In a small bowl, whisk oil into vinegar.
Stir in the cheese and pear slices. Toss salad and season with salt and
pepper, to your taste.



Salisbury Steak with Wild Mushroom Gravy, Smashed Potatoes with garlic and
Herb Cheese and Chives, Creamed Spinach

Potatoes:
2 pounds russet potatoes, peeled and chunked, 3 large potatoes
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup half-and-half or cream, eyeball it
4 ounces, 1/2 cup garlic and herb cheese (recommended: Boursin)
3 tablespoons chopped chives or, 2 scallions, thinly sliced

Meat and Gravy:
1 1/4 pounds ground beef sirloin
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, eyeball it
1 small onion, finely chopped
1 tablespoon steak seasoning blend (recommended: Montreal Seasoning by McCormick) or, coarse salt and pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil, 3 tablespoons, 3 turns of the pan
12 crimini or baby portobellos, sliced
12 shiitake mushrooms, chopped
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 cups beef stock

Spinach:
2 boxes frozen chopped spinach, 10 ounces, defrosted in microwave
2 tablespoons butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup heavy cream

Place potatoes in a pot and covered with water. Cover pot with lid and bring
water to a boil. Salt boiling water and potatoes. Leave lid off pot and simmer
at rolling boil until tender, 8 to 10 minutes.

While potatoes cook, combine meat, Worcestershire, onion and steak seasoning
or salt and pepper. Form 2 large, oval patties, 1-inch thick.

Preheat large nonstick skillet over medium high heat. Add a tablespoon of
extra-virgin olive oil and the meat patties to a hot pan. Cook meat 6 minutes
on each side until meat is evenly caramelized on the outside and juices run
clear. Remove meat and cover with loose tin foil to keep warm. Add 1 more turn
of the pan extra-virgin olive oil and butter to the pan, then the mushrooms.
Season mushrooms with salt and pepper and saute mushrooms until tender, 3 to 5
minutes.

While mushrooms cook, squeeze defrosted spinach dry by wringing it out in a
kitchen towel. To a small skillet, add butter and cream and heat to a bubble
over moderate heat. add spinach and salt and pepper. Cook until spinach
thickens with cream, 3 to 5 minutes.

To mushrooms, add a sprinkle of flour to the pan and cook 2 minutes more.
Whisk in stock and thicken 1 minute.

While sauce thickens, drain potatoes and return to hot pot. Smash potatoes
with a little half-and- half or cream and garlic and herb cheese. Smash and
incorporate chives. Add salt and pepper, to your taste.

To serve, pour gravy over Salisbury steak. Serve potatoes and creamed spinach
alongside the steaks.

Notes: These salisbury steaks are really good! The mushroom gravy is a great
compliment to the steaks. 


Cilantro Pesto Pasta

1 clove garlic, cracked away from the skin
2 inches fresh ginger root, chopped
1 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
3 ounces, about 1/2 cup, macadamia nuts
1 lime, juiced
1 cup cilantro leaves
1/2 cup evoo -- extra-virgin olive oil, eyeball it
1 teaspoon coarse salt, eyeball it in palm of your hand
1 pound spaghetti, cooked to al dente, 1/2 cup pasta water reserved

Place first 8 ingredients in food processor or blender and blend until
smooth, then add the pasta water. Toss with hot pasta, adjust seasonings, then
serve immediately.



Peking Chicken Pizza

1/2 pound thin cut (cutlets) boneless, skinless chicken breast
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Grill seasoning blend (recommended: Montreal Seasoning by McCormick) or salt and pepper
2 tablespoons cornmeal or all-purpose flour
1 package store bought pizza dough (you are making 1 12-inch pie)
2 to 3 tablespoons sesame seeds
3 tablespoons plum sauce or Peking Duck Sauce
3 tablespoons barbecue sauce, any variety or brand
2 cups shredded Monterey Jack, available on dairy aisle
2 scallions, chopped in 1-inch pieces on an angle
1/4 red bell pepper, chopped

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.

Heat a grill pan over high heat. Drizzle oil over chicken cutlets and season
with grill seasoning blend or salt and pepper. Grill chicken 3 or 4 minutes on
each side. Slice chicken into very thin strips.

Sprinkle a pizza pan or baking stone with cornmeal or flour. Press dough into
a pizza shell, working all the way to edges of the pan. Sprinkle the edges of
your dough with sesame seeds. Cover the pie with 3 tablespoons each plum sauce
or duck sauce and barbecue sauce. Cover pie with cheese. Top with sliced
chicken and scallions and red pepper. Bake 12 to 15 minutes, until crisp and
cheese is bubbly. Cut into 8 slices.



BRAN MUFFINS
  Yield: 12 servings

1 c  White flour
2 c  Bran
1/4 c  Cornmeal
1 t  Salt
1 1/4 c  Skim milk
1/2 c  Molasses
1 t  Baking soda, dissolved in wa
1 c  Raisins (optional)

Mix all ingredients together and pour into a muffin tin, using either nonstick 
pan or paper liners.  Bake 325F for 25 min.



SALAD NICOISE

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   8       oz           Beans -- green, topped & tail
  16                    Potatoes -- new, small, peeled
   4                    Eggs- hard boiled, sliced
   1       can          Tuna -- 7 1/2 oz drained
   3                    Tomatoes -- cut in wedges
   1/2     ts           Mustard -- dijon
   1                    Garlic clove- finely chopped
   2       tb           Vinegar -- red wine
   1/2     cup          Olive oil
   1       tb           Parsley- finely chopped
   1       tb           Chives -- fresh chopped
   8                    Anchovy fillets (opt)
  16                    Olives -- black

In pot of boiling water,add green beans and boil till tender crisp, about 2-3 minutes.
Refresh with cold cold water and dry.
In large pot of salted water, bring potatoes to a boil. Cook till tender, about 8 minutes.
Combine green beans, potatoes, tuna, tomatoes in large bowl. 
In small bowl, whisk together mustard, garlic and vinegar. 
Add oil slowly, then parsley and chives. Season with pepper and pour over ingredients.
Top with eggs and anchovy fillets.
If green beans aren't available, you can use green and or red pepper. 

Notes: A nice dinner for the summer when you don't want to heat the kitchen up. Hearty but
not too heavy. 
 
 

Potato Pancakes

1/4  cup butter
3    large onions, finely chopped
4    large eggs
3    cups mashed potatoes
1/2  cup flour
     salt and pepper
     Tabasco sauce
2    tablespoons water

1.  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.
2.  In large skillet, melt the butter, then add the onion and cook over
moderate heat for 3 minutes, stirring.
3.  Remove from heat.
4.  In a large mixing bowl, whisk three of the eggs till well blended, then
add the cooked onions, potatoes, flour, salt, pepper, Tobasco and stir until
mixture is firm.
5.  Form the mixture into 16 round pancakes and place on a large greased
baking sheet.
6.  In a small bowl, whisk the remaining egg with the water, brush the top of
each pancake with the egg wash, and bake the pancakes till golden brown, 20-25
minutes.

Notes: Quite good; the batter is maybe a little on the thin side. I didn't use
tobasco because of the other folks eating them - maybe add some fresh herbs
like chives or rosemerry.


Tzatziki

1    pint sour cream (or Greek-style super thick yogurt)
1    English cucumber, peeled,grated and squeezed to remove as much water as possible 
3    cloves garlic, mashed to a paste
1/2  cup olive oil
1    tablespoon red wine vinegar
1    tablespoon minced fresh dill or 1 teaspoon dried dill (optional)
salt

1.  Just mix everything up together until it is all blended and the oil has
emulsified into the yogurt/sour cream and put in a sealable tupperware bowl.

2.  Allow to 'sit' in the refrigerator for at least 2-3 hours before using to
allow the flavors to come out.

Notes: Very good. 


Down South Pork Barbeque

5 lb Pork roast
2 lg Onions -- sliced
6 Cloves
2 c Water
16 oz bottle barbeque sauce
1 lg Onion -- chopped

Place half the sliced onion in the bottom of a crockpot. Add
meat,cloves and water. Add the remaining sliced onion. Cover and cook
overnight or 8 to 12 hours on LOW. Remove bone and fat from meat.
Discard onions, cloves and water. Shred the meat and put it back in
the pot. Add chopped onion and the BBQ sauce. Cook another 1 to 3
hours on HIGH or 4 to 8 hours on LOW, stirring seversl times. Serve
on large buns. If your sauce has a lot of sugar in it, stir more
frequently to prevent burning.

Notes: A tasty simple barbeque recipe good for a quick fix when you can't
mind the smoker all day.


Rouille
 3 cloves garlic
 1/2 cup mayonaise
 2 tsp paprika
 1 tsp chili powder
 1/4 tsp cumin
 3 Tbsp olive oil
 1 red chile
 1 Tbsp lemonjuice

Crush garlic cloves, add to mayo, paprika, chili powder, and cumin. Mix in
olive oil, 1 Tbsp at a time. Add diced chili and lemon juice, mix and
chill. Serve with baguette.

Notes: Very good appetizer; could possibly reduce the amount of olive oil to
       2 Tbsp (depending on consistancy), or add 1/4 tsp red pepper to add
       some kick.


                           MUSHROOM CROUSTADES

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 4    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Vegetarian

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   4                    Wholemeal cottage loaf rolls
   1       lb           Small cap mushrooms
     1/4   pt           Double cream
   3       oz           Butter
   1       sm           Garlic clove
                        Fresh rosemary

  Cut the knobs off the rolls and reserve as lids.   Scoop out most of the
  crumb from the rolls, taking care not to pierce the crusts.  Crush the garlic
  with a pinch of salt, about 1/2 teaspoon fresh chopped rosemary and a good
  grinding of black pepper.  Mash these flavourings into 2 1/2 oz butter and
  spread it thickly over the insides of the hollowed-out rolls.

  Season the cream generously with salt and pepper, add 1/2 teaspoon fresh
  chopped rosemary and leave in a cool place to infuse.  Slice the mushrooms
  thickly, and heat the oven to 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6.

  Sit the rolls on a baking tray and put the lids beside them.  Bake for 10
  minutes until heated through and slightly crisp.  Meanwhile heat a large
  frying pan. Add 1/2 oz butter (don't be tempted to use more) and, when the
  foam dies down, saute the mushrooms. Cook them, stirring frequently, for 4-5
  minutes to reduce them and intensify their flavour.  Pour on the cream and
  let it bubble up for a few seconds.  Turn and stir the mushrooms for a
  minute or so until every slice is coated with the scant but richly flavoured
  sauce.

  Away from the heat, check and adjust seasoning.  Pile the creamy mixture into
  the freshly baked croustades, top with the lids and serve straight away with
  a large green (or tomato) salad on the side.




Mushrooms in Garlic Sauce

2   T    Olive oil
1        Medium onion, sliced
4        Cloves garlic, minced
1/2 tsp  chopped fresh rosemary OR 1/4 tsp dried rosemary leaves, crushed
1/4 tsp  dried thyme leaves, crushed

1 1/2 lb fresh mushrooms, thinly sliced

1 can    condensed French Onion Soup
1 tsp    lime juice

1/4 cup  dry white wine or dry sherry
Chopped fresh parsley

In 6-quart Dutch oven over medium heat, in hot oil, cook onion, garlic,
rosemary and thyme until onion is tender.
Increase heat to medium-high. Add mushrooms. Cook until mushrooms begin to
brown. Add soup and lime juice. Heat to boiling. Reduce heat to low.  Cook
until mushrooms are tender, stirring occasionally. Add wine. Cook 3 minutes.
Sprinkle with parsley. Garnish with fresh rosemary and lime slice, if
desired.  Serve with meat, rice or noodles. Makes about 2 3/4 cups.

Notes: A tasty and versatile side dish. Goes well with roasts, steaks,
fish, etc. The flavor of the thyme blends quite well with mushrooms.




BARLEY AND ALMOND STUFFED SQUASH

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 2    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Vegan

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1       md           Acorn squash, or other winter squash
     1/3   c            Almonds -- chopped
   1       tb           Olive oil
   1 1/2   c            Onions -- chopped
     1/2   ts           Thyme
   1       c            Barley -- cooked
   1       tb           Tamari

   Cut the squash in half lengthwise. Discard the seeds and
membrane and place the squash cut-side down on a lightly oiled baking
dish. Bake at 350 degrees until the squash is still firm, but tender
enough to easily scoop out with a spoon, about 45 minutes.

   After the squash has been baking about 25 minutes, place
the chopped almonds in a pie tin or another small ovenproof container
and bake until they turna toasty light brown (10-15 minutes). Check
both the almonds and the sqash occasionally so you will know when
they are done.

   Heat the olive oil in a large skillet. Add the onions and
the thyme. Saute over low heat until the onions are well done. Add the
cooked barley, tamari, and toasted almonds to the sauteed onions.

   Using a small spoon, scoop bite-sized chunks out of the
cooked squash, leaving enough flesh around the shell so that it
stays strong enough to hold its shape. Add the scooped out squash to the
barley mixture. Mix well. Fill the empty squash shells with this
mixture, mounding it as high as possible.

   Place the stuffed squash in a baking dish. Cover with
aluminum foil and bake at 350 degrees for about 20 minutes.


Oven Crisp Chicken Wings

1/3     cup flour
1       tablespoon paprika
2       teaspoons garlic salt
1       teaspoon black pepper
3       tablespoons butter
3       lbs chicken wings, tips removed

1. Cut wings at joints.
2. Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
3. Combine flour, paprika, garlic salt and pepper in a shallow dish.
4. Coat each wing in seasoned flour.
5. In large baking dish, melt the butter.
6. Add wings to pan and turn to coat.
7. Bake for 45 minutes, turning once during cooking time.





Black Bean Stuffed Peppers

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   4      large         green sweet peppers
   1      cup           reduced-sodium chicken broth
     3/4  cup           frozen florida orange juice concentrate -- thawed
	                    (Possibly reduce to 1/2 or 1/3 of a cup)
     1/2  cup           chopped onion
     1/2  cup           long grain rice
   2      teaspoons     chili powder
  15      ounces        black beans -- rinsed and drained
   1      11 ounces wh  kernel corn with sweet peppers -- drained
     3/4  cup           shredded reduced-fat monterey jack cheese
                        --3 ounces

Fill a Dutch oven about half full of water; bring to boiling, Halve peppers
lengthwise, removing seeds and membranes. Add peppers to boiling water-and
return to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and simmer for 4 to 5 minutes or-
until peppers are lust tender. Drain peppers.

Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan combine broth, thawed concentrate, onion,
uncooked rice, and chili powder. Bring to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and
simmer about 20 minutes or until rice is tender Stir in beans and corn,
Stir in most of the cheese.

Fill peppers with rice mixture. Place in a 3-quart rectangular baking dish.
Bake, covered, in a 400 degree oven about 25 minutes or until heated through.
Sprinkle with remaining cheese. 

Makes 4 servings (2 pepper-halves).

Notes: Very good; it takes a bit of work to get them together; one person
should parboil the peppers while the other handles the stuffing. Well worth
the effort required. The last time we made these I remember thinking we could
use less OJ - you only need enough to flavor the stuffing and 3/4 cup gives a
very strong orange flavor. (I may try a completely different flavoring, e.g. 
Southwest flavoring, salsa, etc.)




Red Peppers Stuffed with Shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings

      2 lg Sweet red peppers
      3 T  Butter
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Sour cream room temperature
      1 t  Fresh lemon juice
      1 t  Dijon mustard
      2 T  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 cn Water chestnuts, drained
           And thinly sliced (8 oz.)
      2 c  Cooked tiny shrimp
           Salt and freshly ground
           White pepper
    1/2 c  Monterey Jack cheese finely
           Shredded

  Directions;
  Preheat oven 350 degrees.  Halve peppers lengthwise, remove seeds and
  membrane.  Blance for 4 minutes in boiling water, drain.
  Melt butter and saute onion until soft, do not brown.  Sprinkle with
  flour and cook until bubbly.  Remove from heat and blend in sour
  cream.  Cook over low heat until thickened.  Add lemon juice,
  mustard, parsley, water chestnuts, and lastly shrimp.  Season with
  salt and pepper.  Spoon into pepper shells, and sprinkle tops with
  cheese.  Bake 30 minutes till heated through and cheese is bubbly.



Teriyaki Glazed Fish

Tangy Citrus & Ginger Teriyaki Sauce
1/2 cup thick teriyaki glaze (Kikkoman)
1/3 cup orange juice
2 tablespoons honey
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon fresh minced ginger

Cool Pineapple-Mango Salsa
1/2 cup diced canned pineapple
1/2 cup diced fresh mango
1/4 cup diced tomato
1 tablespoon chopped green onion
1 teaspoon diced canned jalapeno
1 teaspoon minced fresh cilantro

4 servings of the fish of your choice:
salmon, tilapia, rainbow trout, halibut, snapper, or swordfish

1. Prepare teriyaki sauce by combining all the ingredients in a blender until
   ginger is completely pureed.
   Chill until needed.
2. Prepare pineapple-mango salsa by combining the ingredients in a medium bowl.
   Cover and chill until needed.
3. Prepare fish by preheating your grill on high heat. Lightly salt and pepper
   the fish and grill it until done. Brush the fish with a coating of the
   teriyaki sauce just before it is removed from the heat. Carefully place each
   fish serving on the center of the plates. Spoon a garnish of the
   pineapple-mango salsa on top of each serving. Serve extra garnish and
   teriyaki on the side, if desired.

Notes: The teriyaki sauce is wonderful. The salsa is nice and refreshing.
I often simplify the salsa by using 1 green onion, 1 small tomato, and 1/2 a fresh
jalapeno. I also tend to use fresh pineapple because it is much better.



Mocha Mint Mousse Tart

Recipe By     :
Serving Size  : 8    Preparation Time :0:00
Categories    : Chocolate

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      Package       Brownie mix (apx 13 oz.)
   1      Tablespoon    Hot water
   1      Package       Cream cheese (8 oz) -- softened
   7 1/2  Ounce         Marshmallow creme (1 jar)
   6      Ounce         Junior Mints
   4      1.6 oz        boxes
   1      Tablespoon    Instant coffee
   1      Cup           Heavy cream -- whipped

Prepare brownie mix according to package directions in a greased 9-onch
round pan; cool. In a mixing bowl, dissolve coffee powder in water; add
cream cheese.  With electric mixer, beat mixture until smooth; blend in
marshmallow creme. Melt Junior Mints -
- place in a microwave-safe bowl and heat on HIGH for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes,
stir until smooth; OR place in a small saucepan and stir over low heat.
Stir in melted Junior Mints (the chocolate will form slivers in the
mixture). Fold in whipped cream and spre
ad onto brownie. Loosely cover and chill several hours or overnight. To
serve, cut into wedges and garnish as desired.



Grilled Shrimp on the Barbie

      This recipe makes the same size appetizer serving that you get in the
restaurant. That's only 6 shrimp -- enough for me, but what are you guys
having? Thank goodness the remoulade sauce and the shrimp seasoning formulas
yield enough for more, so you can grill up to a pound of shrimp with this cool
clone.

Remoulade Sauce
3/4 cup mayonnaise
5 teaspoons stone ground mustard
4 teaspoons buttermilk
2 teaspoons minced celery
2 teaspoons minced green pepper
2 teaspoons minced onion
2 teaspoons sauerkraut
1 teaspoon white vinegar
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper
minced fresh parsley

Shrimp seasoning
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon onion powder
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon chili powder
1/4 teaspoon granulated sugar
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
dash allspice

6 large shrimp (21 to 25 per pound)
fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon butter, melted
minced fresh parsley

1. Preheat your grill to high heat.
2. Make the remoulade sauce by mixing the ingredients together in a small bowl.
   Cover and chill this sauce until you are ready to use it.
3. Prepare the shrimp seasoning by mixing the spices together in a small bowl.
4. Remove the shell from the shrimp. Keep the last segment of the shell and the
   tail. Remove the black vein that runs down the back of the shrimp. Stick a
   skewer through the middle of each shrimp. Push them together on the skewer
   so that they are "spooning" each other.
5. Squeeze some fresh lemon juice over the cuddling shrimp.
6. Brush melted butter generously over the top of the shrimp.
7. Sprinkle a bit of the seasoning on next. Don't use a heavy coating of
   seasoning
8. Place the shrimp onto your hot grill with the seasoning side down. Brush
   some more butter over the other side of the shrimp -- the flames should jump
   up from the butter. Sprinkle a light coating of seasoning over the shrimp
   (you should have lots of seasoning left over).
9. After 3 minutes or so the face-down side of the shrimp should be browned and
   showing some light charring. Flip the shrimp over and grill for an additional
   2-3 minutes or until browned on the other side.
10. Remove the shrimp from the grill and slide them off the skewer onto a slice
    of garlic butter coated bread.* Sprinkle with a pinch of fresh parsley.
Makes 1 to 2 servings.

*Tidbits
 It is best to use a clone for the Bushman bread. Just slice an inch-thick piece
 off through the middle of the bread. This will give you a slice that is about
 8 inches long and 2 to 3 inches wide. Crush a clove of garlic and mix it with
 your left over melted butter. Brush this garlic butter on both sides of the
 bread and toast it until lightly brown. If you don't feel up to making the
 bread, you can use any bread you might have around that is in the shape of a
 hoagie roll. Or you may just wish to serve the shrimp on its own without the
 bread bed.



TSATZIKI SAUCE <not transcribed yet>

4 cups plain yogurt
1 medium cucumber, peeled and grated
4 cloves garlic, crushed
2 T olive oil
1/2 tsp dried dill
Salt & pepper to taste

Place the grated cucumber in colander and allow to drain for 2 hours.
Mix together all ingredients exept the additional olive oil and chill.
Place in serving dishes and drizzle additional olive oil on top.



HERBED HORSERADISH SAUCE FOR FISH
      Yield: 4 servings

      1 c  Dannon Plain Lowfat or
           -Nonfat Yogurt
    1/4 c  Snipped fresh dill/cilantro
      1 tb Grated horseradish
      2 ts Lemon or lime juice
    1/4 ts Dijon mustard
        ds White pepper

  In medium bowl, combine ingredients. Mix well. Cover
  and refrigerate. Serve with grilled or poached fish.

  Yield: enough for 1 pound of fish.



PICO DE GALLO - ROOSTER'S BEAK SALSA
 Categories: Sauces, Mexican, Condiments
      Yield: 1 servings

      1 lb Diced Ripe Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Chopped White Onion
      1 c  Fresh Cilantro Leaves
      4 lg Fresh Serranos Or Jalapenos
           Chopped Fine, Seeds And All
    1/2 c  Ice Water
           Salt To Taste
           Fresh Lime Juice To Taste

  Mix all vegetables and herbs with the ice water, add
  salt and lime juice to taste.  Don't stir too much!
  This salsa is almost a relish and should be kept
  crisp, never mushy.  Good with everything.

  Notes: Reduce the amount of tomato added; as given the recipe ends up being
  more of a quick salsa than the pico de gallo I've seen at Mexican
  restaurants. The amount of kick can be influenced greatly by the addition
  or reduction of jalapenos; red chiles can be substituted for spice
  reduction.



OLIVE GARDEN SEAFOOD PASTA CHOWDER

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   6       oz           Small shells or bowties
   3       oz           Crab meat
   6       tb           Butter
     1/2   lb           Sliced fresh mushrooms
   2       pk           (1oz each) Newburg sauce
                        Mix
   3       c            Milk
   1 1/2   c            Water
     1/4   c            Dry white wine
     1/4   c            Sliced green onions

Cook pasta according to package directions. Sort crab meat to remove any shell pieces. 
Melt butter in 3-quart non aluminum saucepan. Add mushrooms; saute for 3 minutes. 
Add sauce mix; stir well. Add milk, water and wine; stir well with a wire whisk until 
mixture comes to a boil.
Reduce heat; simmer 5-8 min; stirring constantly. 
Add green onions, pasta and crab; stir to combine.
Heat through. Spoon into serving bowls and garnish each serving with chopped parsley.



Title: CHICKEN STEW WITH ROSEMARY-GARLIC DUMPLINGS *

FOR STEW:
  2 tb Butter
  8    Chicken breast, boneless, sk
1/2 c  Onion, chopped
1/2 c  Celery, chopped
  2    Cl Garlic, minced
1/4 c  Flour
  4 c  Chicken broth
1/4 c  Flour
  1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Pepper
  1 tb Fresh rosemary, chopped
  2    Bay leaves
1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
  1 lb Fresh or frozen peas

FOR DUMPLINGS:
2    cups            flour
1      tablespoon    baking powder
1/2    teaspoon      salt
1      tablespoon    butter, cut into several pcs.
1      egg, beaten
2      teaspoons     fresh rosemary, chopped
2/3    cup           low-fat milk

Heat butter in dutch oven over med. heat & brown chicken. 
Remove chicken & saute onion, celery, & garlic for 5 min. Sprinkle with flour & mix well. 
Add broth, sugar, pepper, rosemary, bay leaves, & parsley; bring to boil, stirring constantly.   
Return chicken to pot & spoon sauce over them. Cover & bake in a 350 oven for 30 min.

To prepare the dumplings:  Sift flour, baking powder & salt together. 
Cut in the butter until well blended. 
Combine the egg, rosemary, & milk, & add all at once to the dry mixture; blend quickly with a fork, just
enough to mix.

Remove the pan from the oven & increase the heat to 425. 
Remove bay leaves. Bring to a boil on top of the stove. 
Shape dough with your hands into sixteen dumplings & drop onto boiling stew. 
Return to the oven & cook, uncovered, for 10 min.  Add the peas, cover & cook 10 min. longer.


CHICKEN AND DUMPLINGS

  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1      cup           all-purpose flour
   2                    broiler-fryer chickens (2 1/2-3 lbs each) -- cut up
   2      tablespoons   cooking oil
   3                    celery ribs -- cut in 1" pieces
   3      medium        carrots -- cut in 1" pieces
     1/4  cup           chopped fresh parsley
   2      teaspoons     salt
   1      teaspoon      garlic powder
   1      teaspoon      dried thyme
     1/2  teaspoon      pepper
   8      cups          water -- (up to 12 cups)
                        DUMPLINGS
   2      cups          all-purpose flour
   2      teaspoons     baking powder
   2                    eggs -- beaten
                        GRAVY
     1/4  cup           all-purpose flour
     1/2  cup           water

Place flour in a bowl or bag; add the chicken pieces and dredge or shake to
coat. In a large skillet, brown chicken in oil; drain. Place in an 8-qt
Dutch oven. Add celery, carrots, parsley and seasonings. Add enough water to
cover chicken; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; cover and simmer until chicken
is almost tender, about 45-50 minutes. Remove 1 cup of broth to use for
dumplings; cool, then add flour, baking powder and eggs. Mix well to form a
stiff batter; drop by tablespoonfuls into simmering broth. Cover and simmer
for 15-20 minutes. Remove chicken and dumplings to a serving dish and keep
warm. For gravy, remove 4 cups broth and vegetables to a large saucepan;
bring to a boil. Combine flour and water; mix well. Stir into vegetable
mixture. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened and
bubbly. Pour over chicken and dumplings. Serve immediately.



MINT CHUTNEY

   2      cups          Mint leaves -- fresh
     1/4  teaspoon      Ground red pepper
     1/4  teaspoon      Salt
   2      tablespoons   Water
     1/4  cup           Sugar

Put everything into an electric blender and mix well.  Serve with veggies.


SALMON POT PIE   Serves 4

The salmon cooks while the pie bakes (it's not precooked). Use basil or
tarragon if you don't like dill.

2 cups chicken or vegetable stock
1/2 cup carrots, diced
1 cup onions, chopped
1 cup diced fennel or celery
2 ounces small whole mushrooms
1/4 cup butter
1/4 cup flour
2 tablespoons dill, chopped
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 lb fresh salmon fillet, cut in 1-inch cubes
Salt and freshly ground pepper
1/2 package frozen puff pastry, defrosted
1 egg, beaten with a pinch of salt

Bring stock to simmer. Add carrots, onions, fennel and mushrooms. Simmer for
five minutes or until vegetables start to soften. Strain stock, reserving
vegetables and stock separately.

Heat butter on medium heat in pot. Stir in flour and cook for two minutes.
Pour in stock and whisk together until it comes to the boil. Simmer for two
to three minutes or until thick. Stir in dill and cream. Season with salt and
pepper and stir in salmon. Place in a baking dish.

Preheat oven to 375 F. Roll out pastry to fit dish leaving a one-inch overhang.
Fold the overhang up to make a fluted edge. Brush with egg. Cut several slits
in pastry to let steam escape. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes or until pastry is golden.



Red Lobster New England Clam Chowder
  by Todd Wilbur

2 1/2 cups water
three 6.5-ounce cans minced clams (plus liquid)
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon minced fresh parsley
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 bay leaf
dash ground thyme
2 white or red potatoes, peeled and diced
     (not russet or yellow potatoes)
1 cup heavy cream

1. Combine water and liquid drained from all 3 cans of clams in a large
saucepan. Stir in flour, parsley, salt, bay leaf and thyme. Turn to medium
heat.
2. When water begins to bubble, add the potatoes and simmer for 5
minutes. Stir often to keep the potatoes from sticking to the bottom of the
pan.
3. Add the clams to the saucepan and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring
often.
4. Add the cream and simmer for an additional 5 minutes. Watch the pan
carefully to be sure the chowder doesn't bubble over. Turn down the heat if
the soup begins to erupt. Makes 5 servings.


Outback Steakhouse Steak Seasoning

It seems that everyone who digs flavorful, juicy cuts of beef wants to
know how to recreate the taste of Outback's famous steaks at home. If
that describes you, then I have good news, and even better news: This
recipe will do it, and it's real darn simple. Just throw together a few
spices and grab your top sirloin or rib eye or filet, and heat up a
large frying pan. That's right, folks. You don't need to preheat the
barbecue out back since Outback uses a flat indoor grill to get those
delicious results.

2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon paprika
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon onion powder
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
dash coriander
dash turmeric

1. Mix all ingredients together in a small bowl.
2. To prepare steaks with this seasoning: Preheat a flat grill or large
frying pan over medium/high heat. Sprinkle some of the seasoning blend over
both sides of each cut of beef. Grill the steaks on each side to your desired
level of doneness. Be sure to use tongs to sear all the edges of each steak to
a rich brown color. (http://www.topsecretrecipes.com)

Tidbits
 For a gourmet variation, add couple tablespoons of red wine to the pan on
 high heat after removing the steak. Stir the wine around to remove the
 browned reside from the pan (deglaze it), and when the sauce has reduced by
 a third or so, pour it over your steak -- flavor bonanza!



Baked Ziti with Vegetables

One 16-ounce package ziti or penne macaroni
2 medium-size green peppers
2 medium-size carrots
2 medium-size celery stalks
1 medium-size onion
1 tablespoon salad oil
One 28-ounce can crushed tomatoes
3/4 32-ounce bottle spicy-hot vegetable juice or vegetable juice (3 cups)
1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
One 8-ounce package shredded reduced-fat mozzarella cheese (2 cups)
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese

1. In saucepot, prepare ziti as label directs.

2. Meanwhile, cut green peppers, carrots, celery, and onion into 1/2-inch
pieces. In nonstick 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat, in hot salad oil,
cook vegetables until lightly browned. Stir in 1/4 cup water; continue cooking
over medium heat until vegetables are tender-crisp.

3. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Drain ziti in colander; set aside. To same
saucepot, add cooked vegetables; stir in crushed tomatoes, vegetable juice,
sugar, salt, and oregano; over high heat, heat to boiling. Remove saucepot
from heat; stir in cooked ziti.

4. Reserve 1 cup shredded mozzarella for topping. Into ziti mixture in
saucepot, stir Parmesan and remaining mozzarella cheese. Spoon mixture into
shallow 4-quart casserole; sprinkle with reserved mozzarella cheese. Cover
casserole and bake 30 minutes or until cheese melts and mixture is hot and
bubbly.

Preparation Time: 1 hour



Cream of Asparagus Soup

1/2 cup chopped onions
1/2 cup chopped celery
1 (10 1/2-ounce) can chicken broth, defatted
1/4 cup white rice
1 pound asparagus spears
2 cups evaporated skim milk
1/2 cup fat-free sour cream

Lightly spray an unheated large saucepan with no-stick spray. Add the onions
and celery. Cook and stir over medium heat until the onions are tender. Stir
in the broth and rice. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat. Cover and simmer
about 20 minutes or until the rice is tender. 

Steam asparagus. Cut the tips from the asparagus and set aside. Chop the spears.
Add the spears and 1/2 cup of the milk to the rice mixture. Bring to a boil.

Reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Transfer the asparagus-rice mixture
to a blender or food processor. Blend or process until smooth. While the
blender or food processor is still running, slowly pour in the remaining 1 1/2
cups of milk. The final consistency should be smooth and slightly thickened.
Return the mixture to the saucepan. Heat the soup to a simmer. Remove from the
heat and stir in the sour cream. Garnish each serving with the reserved
asparagus tips. If desired, drizzle with additional fat-free sour cream
slightly thinned with water.

Notes: Good but needs another flavor element such as cheese, etc. to really bring
out the best flavor.



Apple-Glazed Barbecued Chicken

1 can (6 ounce) frozen apple juice concentrate, thawed
1/4 cup reduced-sodium ketchup
2 tablespoons packed brown sugar
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
1 teaspoon dried thyme
1/8 teaspoon hot-pepper sauce
6 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves (4 ounces each)

In a small saucepan, combine the apple juice concentrate, ketchup, brown
sugar, vinegar, thyme and hot- pepper sauce. Cook, stirring, over medium heat
until the sugar completely dissolves. Remove from the heat and cool to room
temperature. Place the chicken in a single layer in a 13-by-9-inch baking pan.
Pour about half of the cooled ketchup mixture over the chicken, turning once
to coat both sides. Cover and refrigerate both the chicken and the remaining
ketchup mixture for 4 to 24 hours. Coat a grill rack with nonstick spray. Then
light the grill according the manufacturer's directions.

Check the temperature for grilling; the temperature should be medium-hot (see
the Test Kitchen Tip below). Place the rack on the grill. Remove the chicken
from the ketchup mixture; discard whatever ketchup mixture remains in the
baking pan. Coat the chicken pieces with nonstick spray and brush them with
some of the remaining ketchup mixture. Place the chicken on the rack and
grill, uncovered, for 8 minutes. Turn the chicken over and brush with the
remaining ketchup mixture. Grill for 7 to 10 minutes, or until the chicken is
tender and cooked through. Discard any remaining ketchup mixture.






HERB-ENCRUSTED ROAST LEG OF LAMB WITH GARLIC ROASTED BABY POTATOES

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse, 2001

1/4 cup Dijon mustard
1/2 cup dry red wine
3 tablespoons minced garlic
1/2 cup olive oil
1/4 cup minced fresh mint
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh rosemary
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 (6 pound) leg of lamb, trimmed of fat

3 pounds baby potatoes, rinsed well and halved (if larger than 1 1/2 inches in diameter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces)
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme

In a bowl, whisk together the mustard, red wine and garlic. Slowly drizzle in
the olive oil to form an emulsion, then whisk in the herbs, salt and pepper.
Rub the mixture over the lamb, coating the outside completely. Place the lamb
in a large plastic bag and cover with any remaining marinade. Seal the bag,
refrigerate and let marinate at least 8 and up to 48 hours, turning the bag
occasionally to coat evenly.

In a large bowl, toss the potatoes with the remaining ingredients, turning to
coat evenly.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

Place the lamb in a large roasting pan and roast for 30 minutes. Remove from
the oven and spread the potatoes evenly around the lamb. Return to the oven
and roast until an instant-read thermometer inserted into thickest part of
lamb registers 140 degrees F. for medium-rare, about 1 hour more. Remove the
lamb from the pan and place on a platter to rest for 15 minutes before
carving. Return the potatoes to the oven to continue cooking while the meat
rests.

Carve the lamb and serve with the hot roasted potatoes.

Notes: Excellent; well worth the expense of a leg of lamb and the fresh herbs.
This recipe produced some of the best roasted potatoes I've ever had.



Chili Scallops With Black-Bean Salsa

1 can (15 to 19 ounces) black beans, rinsed and drained
1 can (15 1/4 to 16 ounces) whole-kernel corn, drained
1/4 cup finely chopped red onion
1/4 cup loosely packed fresh cilantro leaves, chopped
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 pound sea scallops /ul>
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 teaspoon sugar
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
cilantro leaves and hot red chilies for garnish
lime wedges (optional)

1. In large bowl, mix black beans, corn, onion, chopped cilantro, lime juice,
and 1/4 teaspoon salt.
   Set black-bean salsa aside.

2. Rinse scallops with cold running water to remove sand from crevices; pat
dry with paper towels.
   In medium bowl, mix chili powder, sugar, and remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt;
   add scallops, tossing to coat.

3. In nonstick 12-inch skillet, heat vegetable oil over medium-high heat
until very hot. Add scallops and
   cook 3 to 6 minutes until scallops are lightly browned on the outside and
   turn opaque throughout, turning once.

4. Arrange black-bean salsa and scallops on 4 dinner plates, garnish with
cilantro leaves and red chilies.
   Serve with lime wedges if you like.


   
Lemon-Ginger Chicken

4 skinless bone-in chicken breast halves (6 ounces each)
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 cup reduced-fat lemon yogurt
2 teaspoons all-purpose flour
1 clove garlic, minced
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon finely shredded lemon rind

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Sprinkle the chicken with the salt and
pepper. Place in a 13-by-9-inch baking pan. Sprinkle with the lemon juice.
Cover and bake for 40 minutes, or until the chicken is tender and the juices
run clear when you pierce the thickest park of the breast with a fork. Remove
the chicken from the dish; discard the juices. In a small bowl, stir together
the yogurt, flour, garlic, ginger and lemon rind. Return the chicken to the
baking pan. Spread the yogurt mixture over the chicken. Cover and bake for 10
minutes. Serve over spinach fettuccine if you wish.




Red Lobster Cheddar Bay Biscuits

2 1/2 cups Bisquick baking mix
1 cup finely grated cheddar cheese
3/4 cup whole milk
2 tablespoons butter, melted
1/8 teaspoon garlic powder

Brush on Top
1/4 cup butter, melted
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon dried parsley flakes
dash salt

1. Preheat your oven to 400 degrees.
2. Combine Bisquick with cheddar cheese, milk, 2 tablespoons of butter that
has been melted in the microwave, and 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder in a medium
bowl. Mix until well-combined.
3. Drop approximately 1/4-cup portions of the dough onto an ungreased cookie
sheet.
4. Combine 1/4 cup butter with 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder, parsley
flakes and salt. Brush this mixture over the tops of each unbaked biscuit.
5. Bake for 14 to 16 minutes or until the tops of the biscuits begin to turn
light brown. Serve warm.



Polenta Triangles

2 cups milk
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon minced fresh rosemary or 1/4 teaspoon dried rosemary leaves,
crushed
1/2 teaspoon minced fresh sage or 1/4 teaspoon dried sage leaves
1 chicken-flavor bouillon cube or envelope
olive or salad oil
2 cups yellow cornmeal
minced sage for garnish

1. Line 15 1/2- by 10 1/2-inch jelly-roll pan with plastic wrap. In 4-quart
   saucepan over medium-high heat, heat milk, salt, rosemary, sage, chicken
   bouillon, 1 tablespoon olive or salad oil, and 4 1/2 cups water to boiling.
   Reduce heat to low; gradually sprinkle in cornmeal, stirring constantly
   with wire whisk or spoon to prevent lumping.

Cook 5 to 8 minutes until mixture is thick and all liquid is absorbed. Spoon
cornmeal mixture evenly into jelly-roll pan; set aside 10 minutes or until
polenta is set and firm. If not serving right away, cover and refrigerate.

ABOUT 20 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING:

2. Preheat broiler if manufacturer directs. Remove polenta from jelly-roll
pan; discard plastic wrap. Cut polenta lengthwise into thirds; cut each third
crosswise into 4 pieces. Then cut each piece diagonally crisscross into 4
triangles (48 triangles in all).

3. To garnish polenta triangles, brush triangles with 1 tablespoon olive or
salad oil; top each triangle with some minced sage. Place triangles on 2 large
cookie sheets.

4. With rack about 5 to 7 inches from source of heat, broil polenta 5 to 10
minutes until lightly browned and heated through.



Stewed Chicken and Sausage

Recipe Courtesy of Emeril Lagasse

1 small chicken (about 2 1/2 pounds) cut into 8 pieces
Essence, recipe follows
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 pound smoked sausage, cut crosswise into 1/2-inch slices
2 cups julienne onions
Salt, Cayenne
4 bay leaves
1 tablespoon chopped garlic
6 cups canned chicken stock
1/4 cup chopped green onions

Season the chicken pieces with Essence. In a mixing bowl, add the flour 
and season with Essence. Dredge the chicken in the seasoned flour, coating 
each side completely. Add the oil to the Crock-Pot, over medium heat. 
When the oil is hot, add the chicken. Turn to brown the chicken on all sides. 
Cook until evenly browned, 5 to 6 minutes. Add the sausage, stir and cook 
for 5 to 6 minutes. Add the onions. Season with salt and cayenne.
Cook for 5 to 6 minutes. Add the bay leaves, garlic and chicken stock. 
Cover the Crock-Pot and cook for 3 hours, or until the chicken is tender. 
Stir in the green onions.
Reseason if necessary.


Emeril's ESSENCE Creole Seasoning

2 1/2 tablespoons paprika
2 tablespoons salt
2 tablespoons garlic powder
1 tablespoon black pepper
1 tablespoon onion powder
1 tablespoon cayenne pepper
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 tablespoon dried thyme

Combine all ingredients thoroughly.

Yield: 2/3 cup



Traditional Southern Biscuits

2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons butter, cold
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening, cold
1 cup milk

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. In a large mixing
bowl, combine the flour, baking powder and salt. Mix
well. Add 1 tablespoon of the cold butter and the cold
shortening and work it into the dry ingredients, using
your hands, until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs.
Stir in the milk. The dough will be sticky. Dust your work
surface with some flour. Turn the dough onto the floured
surface. Gently fold each side toward the center. Pick up
the dough and dust the work surface with additional
flour. Return the dough to the floured surface and fold
each side towards the center again. Turn the dough over
and press it out to 1-inch thickness. Cut the biscuits,
straight down, do not twist the cutter, with a 2 1/4-inch
round cookie cutter. Melt the remaining tablespoon of
butter and add to a 10-inch round cake pan. Place the
biscuits in the pan, turning once (to coat both sides with
butter), about 1/4-inch apart. Let the biscuits rest for 15
minutes before baking. Bake until golden brown, about
15 minutes.

Difficulty: Easy



Country Fried Steak With White Gravy

Recipe Courtesy Emeril Lagasse

1 cup vegetable oil
1 pound round steak, cut into 4 (4-ounce) pieces
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 egg, beaten
3 cups plus 3 tablespoons milk
1 1/2 cups plus 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Heat the oil in a heavy 9-inch cast iron skillet, to 360
degrees F. Using a meat mallet, pound out the meat.
Season the steak with salt and pepper. Combine the egg
with 3 tablespoons of the milk. Put 1 1/2 cups of the
flour in a shallow pan and season with salt and pepper.
Dredge the steaks in the flour, coating each piece evenly
and tapping off any excess. Drip the steak in the egg
wash, coating it completely and letting the excess drip
off. Dredge again in the flour, shaking off any excess.
Fry the steaks in the hot oil, until golden brown on each
side, about 3 minutes. Remove and drain on paper
towels. Season with salt and pepper. Carefully pour off
the oil, leaving behind about 1/4 cup of the oil along with
the brown bits. Over medium heat, add the remaining 3
tablespoons flour and cook for 3 to 4 minutes, whisking
constantly. Add the remaining 3 cups milk, 1/2 cup at a
time, whisking constantly. Bring to a boil, then reduce
the heat to medium-low. Season with salt and plenty of
pepper. Cook for 8 to 10 minutes, whisking constantly.
The gravy should be thick enough to coat the back of a
spoon. If it is too thick, add a little water to thin it.
Serve the fried steak and gravy with mashed potatoes
and green beans.

Yield: 4 servings
Difficulty: Easy



Creamy Stone Ground
Grits

Recipe courtesy of Emeril Lagasse, 1999

6 cups water
6 cups milk
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground white pepper
4 tablespoons butter
1 1/2 cups stone ground white grits
1 pound grated white cheddar cheese

In a large saucepan, over medium heat, combine the
water, milk, salt, pepper and 2 tablespoons of the butter.
Bring the liquid to a gentle boil. Stir in the grits. Cook for
1 hour and 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. (**The grits
will stick to the bottom of the pan, so make sure not to
scrape the bottom of the pan. If the grits absorbed all of
the water, add some hot water to thin out the grits.)
Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the remaining
2 tablespoons butter and cheese. The grits can either be
served immediately or prepared in advance and
reheated. If preparing in advance, grease a pan with a
teaspoon of butter. Pour the grits into the pan and
reheat in a 400 degree F., for 15 minutes.

Yield: 8 servings
Difficulty: Easy



Spiced Ginger Cake

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse, 2001

2 1/2 cups flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
4 ounces cold unsalted butter
3 eggs, lightly beaten
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup milk
1/2 cup chopped crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

Grease and lightly flour a 8-inch by 3-inch cake pan.

Into a large bowl sift together the flour, sugar, baking
powder, salt, ginger, cloves, and allspice. Using a pastry
blender, 2 knives, or your fingers, work the butter into
flour mixture until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add
the eggs, vanilla, milk, and half of the crystallized ginger
and stir just until dry ingredients are moistened (batter
will appear lumpy).

Pour the batter into the prepared pan and sprinkle
remaining crystallized ginger on top of batter. Bake for
50 minutes to 1 hour, until a cake tester inserted into
cake's center comes out clean.



Indian Chicken

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse

1 tablespoon chopped mint
1 tablespoon chopped cilantro
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon lime juice
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon curry powder
1/4 cup plain yogurt
1 tablespoon minced garlic
Salt and pepper
3 pounds chicken breast, skinless, boneless

In a small bowl combine mint, cilantro, lemon and lime
juices, olive oil, curry powder, yogurt, garlic, salt and
pepper and mix well. Place the chicken in a large plastic
bag and pour the marinade over the chicken. Squeeze the
excess air from the bag and seal. Marinate for 3 hours,
refrigerated.

Season, and place the marinated breast on the grill or in
your broiler. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes on each side until
firm, but still springy.




Classic Duck a L'Orange

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse, 2001

2 cups freshly squeezed orange juice, from about 6
oranges
2 oranges, zested
2/3 cup sugar
1 (5-pound) Pekin duck, cleaned, with innards, wing tips
and excess fat removed
1 tablespoon bitters
2 cups duck or chicken stock
2 tablespoons arrowroot dissolved in 2 tablespoons cold
water
1 cup orange liqueur

Preheat oven to 500 degrees F.

Roughly chop the orange rinds after juicing and place in
the cleaned duck cavity. Place the stuffed duck on a
baking rack over a baking sheet with 1/2-inch of water.
Bake until skin turns golden brown and lightly crisps,
about 30 minutes. Reduce temperature to 300 degrees
and continue cooking until duck reaches an internal
temperature of 170 degrees, about 1 hour.

In a medium heavy saucepan combine the orange juice,
zest and sugar over medium high heat and reduce nearly
3/4 in volume, to about 3/4 cup. Add bitters to orange
juice gastrique, and set aside. Place duck stock in clean
saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Add hot
stock to reduced orange gastrique, and continue to
simmer over medium low heat for 10 minutes to make
sauce.

Remove duck from roasting pan and discard drippings in
bottom of pan. Return duck to roasting pan and place pan
over 2 burners over medium high heat. Add orange
liqueur to pan and cook off the alcohol, scraping the pan
continuously with a large wooden spoon. Add 1 cup of the
orange sauce to the roasting pan and cook 1 minute.
Remove duck from the pan and discard orange rinds in
cavity. Place duck on serving platter and let sit 10
minutes before carving. Combine roasting pan juices and
orange sauce in a gravy boat and serve with carved duck.



Shrimp-Tarragon Tamale Pie

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse

1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 pound medium shrimp, peeled, deveined
1 cup chopped onion
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 cup chopped tomatoes
1 teaspoon chopped orange zest
1/2 cup light broth
1 1/2 cups yellow cornmeal
1 tablespoon fresh chopped tarragon
3 tablespoons butter
1/4 cup grated soft cheese (queso fresco)
Sour Cream Topping, recipe follows

In a large skillet, heat the oil, add the shrimp, and cook
for 30 seconds. Add the onions, garlic, 1/2-teaspoon
salt, and the coriander. Cook until the onions are tender,
about 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes, orange zest, broth,
and 1 tablespoon of cornmeal. Bring to a boil, stirring,
until the mixture thickens, about 2 minutes. Remove,
stir in the fresh tarragon, and set aside.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a large saucepan, whisk
together 4 cups of water and the remaining cornmeal and
salt. Bring to a boil over medium heat, whisking
frequently, until the mixture boils. Reduce the heat to
low and cook, stirring constantly until thick. Remove
from the heat and stir in the butter. Put 1/3 of this
mixture in the bottom of a buttered 8 by 11-inch
casserole dish. Spoon the filling over the cornmeal,
spreading it out evenly. Top with the rest of the
cornmeal mixture, spreading evenly. Sprinkle with the
cheese, and bake for 30 to 35 minutes. Remove from the
oven and spread the Sour Cream Topping over the entire
dish.

Sour Cream Topping:
3/4 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon chopped parsley
1 tablespoon chopped tarragon
1/4 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon salt
Pinch white pepper

Combine all ingredients.



Herb and Parmesan Focaccia

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse

1 1/2 cups warm water (between 110 to 115 degrees)
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 ounce (1 package) yeast
3 1/4 cups all-purpose flour (you may need more to
achieve the smooth elasticity)
2 teaspoons salt, plus more for seasoning
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons mixed chopped herbs
1/4 cup grated Parmesan
Freshly ground black pepper

In a small bowl, dissolve the sugar in the warm water.
Sprinkle the yeast over the mixture and let stand for 10
minutes, to bloom (it should begin to foam).

In the mixer bowl with the dough hook attached, add 3
cups of flour, salt, and yeast mixture. Slowly turn it on
and work the dough together. Turn it up to medium and
mix for 5 minutes. If the dough is sticky, continue
mixing and gradually add the remaining flour. Place this
smooth ball of dough into an oiled bowl, cover, and set
aside to rise for 3 hours.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spread the dough out on a
oiled sheet tray and press "dimples" into it with your
fingertips. Drizzle with the oil, herbs, cheese, and
seasonings. Bake until browned and cooked through and
let cool.




Sauerbraten <not transcribed>

Recipe copyright 1996, Emeril Lagasse. All rights
reserved.

2 cups red wine
2 cups red wine vinegar
1/2 cup pickling spice
2-1 pound pieces of beef, inside round, tied with twine
in 2 places-against the grain
Oil for searing
1 cup chopped onion
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 cup dark chicken stock
1 cup ground gingersnap cookies
Chopped orange zest, for garnish
Chopped parsley, for garnish

Combine the red wine, red wine vinegar, and pickling spice. Place the beef in
a non-reactive container just large enough to hold the meat and 4 1/2 cups of
liquid. Pour the liquid over the meat. It should be completely covered with
liquid. Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 3 days, rotating every 12 hours or so.

Remove the meat from the brine and pat dry. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a
dutch oven. Sear the meat on all sides and ends until very dark brown, remove
the meat. Add the onions, cook for 2 to 3 minutes, add the tomato paste, and
cook, stirring for 2 minutes. Strain the brine and add it to the dutch oven.
Add the meat, and stock. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 2
hours or until fork tender, rotating occasionally.

Remove the meat, whisk in the cookie crumbs. Puree with a hand held blender
until smooth. Season. Thinly slice the meat against the grain. Top with the
gravy. Garnish with chopped parsley.


Chicken, Bacon, and White Bean Soup, Portuguese Style

Recipe copyright 1996, Emeril Lagasse

8 ounces chopped bacon
2 cup chopped onions
1/2 cup chopped celery
2 tablespoons minced shallots
1 tablespoon minced garlic
2 quart chicken stock
1 pound white beans, soaked overnight
1 bouquet garni
12 ounces small diced cooked chicken
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
Salt and black pepper
Pecorino Romano
Small crusty bread loaf

In a stock pot, render the bacon until crispy, remove the
bacon. Saute the onions, celery, shallots, and garlic in
the bacon fat for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the stock, beans
and bouquet. Bring up to a boil and reduce to a simmer.
Allow to cook for about 2 hours or until the beans are
tender. Add the diced chicken meat. Season with
cayenne, salt and black pepper. Garnish with Pecorino
and serve with crusty bread.




Frozen Mint Julep

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse. 2000

25 fresh mint leaves
1/2 cup simple syrup, (equal amounts sugar and water
simmered until sugar dissolves)
3 cups ice
1/2 cup bourbon
Mint sprigs, for garnish

In the bottom of a tall glass, combine mint leaves and
simple syrup and crush leaves with the handle of a
wooden spoon – the more you mash the leaves, the more
mint flavor you will extract. In a blender combine the
simple syrup, ice, and bourbon and blend on the “ice
crush” setting until ice is finely chopped and smooth.

Rub the rims of tall glasses with orange segments or a
little simple syrup and dip glass rims in sugar, then fill
with the frozen mint juleps and garnish with fresh mint
sprigs.



Emeril's Kicked-Up Calzone al Forno  <not transcribed>

Recipe courtesy Emeril
Lagasse, 2001

Basic pizza dough, prepared
as described for calzones,
recipe follows
2 cups crushed tomatoes
2 tablespoons olive oil
2/3 cup kalamata olives, pitted and coarsely chopped
1/2 pound mozzarella, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, plus 1/2
pound mozzarella, sliced
1/2 pound ricotta
1/4 cup grated Parmesan
1 cup cooked sausage pieces, such as chorizo or Italian
sausage
1/2 cup chopped fresh basil

Preheat oven to 500 degrees F and if you have one, place
a pizza stone on the bottom rack of the oven.

In the bowl of a food processor, combine tomatoes, olive
oil, and salt and pepper, to taste. Process until smooth
and transfer half of the sauce to a small bowl and set
aside. Divide remaining sauce between 4 calzones,
spreading the sauce on one half of the dough.

In a small bowl, combine olives, mozzarella cubes,
ricotta, Parmesan, sausage, and chopped basil and mix
well. Divide mixture between the 4 calzones, placing
cheese mixture on top of tomato sauce. Fold untopped
half of dough over filling, pressing edges together with
the tines of a fork.

Cut a slit in the top of each calzone and transfer calzones
to a preheated baking stone in a preheated oven and
cook for 8 minutes, or until golden brown and cheese is
bubbly on top. Remove from the oven with a metal peel
or spatula and serve immediately.

Basic pizza dough ? processor method:
1 package active dry yeast
1 cup warm water (110 degrees F)
2 1/2 to 3 cups flour plus more if necessary
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 1/2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

In a small bowl, combine yeast with water, olive oil, salt
and stir well to proof. After 5 minutes, transfer to the
bowl of a food processor along with flour, salt, and olive
oil and process until the dough forms a ball. The dough
should be soft but not sticky. If it is too sticky, add a bit
more flour and process for another minute.

Transfer dough to a lightly floured work surface and
knead dough for 2 to 3 minutes, adding enough
additional flour if necessary to form a smooth and elastic
dough. Dough should not be sticky. Transfer dough to a
lightly oiled 2 or 3 quart bowl and turn to coat dough with
oil. Cover with a damp towel and let rise in a warm place
until doubled in size, usually at least 1 hour.

For calzones, divide the dough into 4 equal portions and
form into 4 balls. Place on a lightly oiled baking sheet and
cover with a damp towel. Let rest for 15 minutes, then
transfer to a lightly floured surface and roll out into 4
(6-inch) circles.




North Carolina Easy Chopped Barbecue  <not transcribed>

Recipe courtesy Al Carson

7 pound pork shoulder, bone in
1 pint Al's barbecue sauce, recipe follows

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Wrap pork in aluminum foil and
place in a broiler pan. Cook for 7 hours, about 1 hour per
pound. Remove from oven and let stand for 1 hour.

Wearing heavy rubber gloves, pull skin from the meat and
discard. Remove most of the fat and all of the bone. Cut meat
into 8-ounce chunks and place in large pan.

Place meat on a charcoal fire and cook, covered, for another
30 to 45 minutes, until well smoked, turning meat over every
10 to 15 minutes. Pour barbecue sauce over meat during the
last 10 to 15 minutes of cooking.

Remove meat from the grill and chop into bite size pieces.
Serve with additional barbecue sauce if desired.

Note: You should get about a 40-percent return on your
original weight (7 pounds = just under 3 pounds).

Al's Barbecue Sauce:
1 gallon apple cider vinegar
1 (28-ounce) bottle ketchup
22 ounces light brown sugar
1/4 cup garlic powder
1/4 cup salt
1/2 cup crushed red pepper
1 tablespoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves

Mix all ingredients in a 6-quart stainless steel pot. Bring to a boil,
then simmer, about 15 minutes. Turn off heat and let stand, about
30 minutes. Sauce can be refrigerated for up to 2 weeks.

Yield: 5 quarts




Broccoli Buffet Casserole
  From Prevention

Ingredients
2 packages (10 ounces each) frozen broccoli spears
1 can (10 3/4 ounce) low-fat, reduced-sodium condensed cream-of-chicken soup
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1 tablespoon tub-style reduced-calorie margarine
1/2 cup reduced-sodium herb-seasoned stuffing mix, crushed
1/4 cup shredded reduced-fat cheddar cheese

Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Cook the broccoli according to the package
   directions, but without adding salt or fat.
2. Drain well and cut into bite-size pieces. Arrange evenly in a 8-by-8-inch
   baking pan.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the soup and lemon juice. Pour over the broccoli.
4. Melt the margarine in a small saucepan. Add the stuffing mix and toss to
   coat with the margarine. Sprinkle on top of the broccoli and soup.
5. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until heated through. Sprinkle with the cheddar.



Chicken Curry in a Hurry

1/2 cup nonfat plain yogurt
1/2 cup nonfat mayonnaise
3 tablespoons finely chopped onions
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon curry powder
1 pound skinless, boneless chicken breasts, cut into 1/2-inch-wide strips
1 teaspoon paprika
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
2 cups hot cooked brown rice

1 In a small bowl, stir together the yogurt, mayonnaise, onions, ginger and curry powder; set aside.
2 Place the chicken in a medium bowl. Combine the paprika and pepper.
  Sprinkle over the chicken and toss until coated.
3 Spray an unheated, large no-stick skillet with no-stick spray.
  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat. Add the chicken.
  Cook and stir for 3 to 4 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink.
4 Stir in the yogurt mixture. Cook and stir for 2 minutes. Serve over the rice.



Applebee's White Chocolate & Walnut Blondie

Cake
4 egg whites
1/2 cup butter, softened
1/2 cup light brown sugar, packed
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
8 ounces white chocolate (cut into chunks)
1/2 cup chopped walnuts

Sauce
1/2 cup butter, softened
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup cream cheese, softened
2 tablespoons maple syrup
1/4 teaspoon salt

8 scoops vanilla ice cream
1/2 cup chopped walnuts

1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees.

2. To make the blondie cake whip the egg whites until they are stiff and form
peaks. Add softened butter, 1/2 cup packed brown sugar, 1/4 cup granulated
sugar, and vanilla and mix with an electric mixer until smooth. In a separate
bowl sift together flour, baking soda, baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon salt.
Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix well until smooth. Mix
in milk. Pour ingredients into a greased 9x13-inch baking pan and bake for 40
to 45 minutes or until cake is golden brown on top. Slice cake into 8 equal
slices when cool.

3. While cake bakes, combine all ingredients for the sauce
in a medium bowl with an electric mixer.

4. To prepare dessert, heat a skillet in a hot oven for 10 to 15 minutes (you
can also serve the dessert on plate). Arrange the cake on the skillet or
plate. Heat up the sauce for 30 to 60 seconds in the microwave until hot.
Place a scoop of vanilla ice cream on the cake, then drizzle some of the sauce
over the top, followed by a tablespoon of chopped walnuts. Serve immediately.

Serves 8.




Taco Bell Baja Sauce
by Todd Wilbur

1/4 of a red bell pepper, seeded and coarsely chopped
1 large jalapeno, chopped in half
2 tablespoons diced Spanish onion
1 cup mayonnaise
1 tablespoon vinegar
1/4 teaspoon cracked black pepper
dash garlic powder
dash cumin

1. Using a food processor, puree peppers and onion.
2. Mix 1 cup mayonnaise and 4 teaspoons of the vegetable puree in a medium bowl.
   Add remaining ingredients and mix well. Chill for several hours to let
   flavors develop.

Makes 1 cup.

Notes: Good stuff - IMHO it wouldn't hurt to use all the puree and make that
mayo even more flavorful.



Shrimp and Corn Chowder

Ingredients

1 - can (10 oz.) reduced-fat cream of celery soup
2 cups low-fat milk
1 cups frozen corn kernels
8 oz. peeled medium shrimp
1 tsp. paprika
1 - vine-ripened tomato, seeded and diced

Preparation - Estimated cooking time: under 30 minutes -
1 In a saucepan over medium heat, combine soup and milk; stir until hot but
not boiling. Add corn and heat for 1 minute.
2 Stir in shrimp and cook until
cooked through, about 2 minutes. Stir in paprika and diced tomato.
3 Ladle into bowls and garnish with a dusting of paprika.



Lee's Hot Crab Dip #246
posted by Crab Place 9/1/1999

45 minutes (15 min prep, 30 min cooking)
8 servings

  1   (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
   1/2   cup sour cream
  2   tablespoons mayonnaise
  1   tablespoon lemon juice
  1 1/4   teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
   1/2   teaspoon dry mustard
  1   pinch garlic salt
  1   tablespoon milk
   1/4   cup cheddar cheese, grated
   1/2   lb crabmeat

1 Remove cartilage from crab meat. In a large bowl, mix cream cheese, sour
cream, mayonnaise, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, mustard, and garlic salt
until smooth.
2 Add enough milk to make mixture creamy.
3 Stir in 2 tablespoons of the grated cheese. Fold crab meat into cream
cheese mixture. Pour into greased 1-quart casserole. Top with remaining cheese
and paprika.
4 Bake at 325 degrees until mixture is bubbly and browned on top,
about 30 minutes.




Crab and Corn Bisque #20765
posted by Mary Anne 2/26/2002
This is a FAST, easy soup recipe.

15 minutes (5 min prep, 10 min cooking)
4-6 servings

   1/4   cup chopped onions
   1/8   cup butter
  1   teaspoon flour
   1/4   teaspoon curry powder
  2   cups frozen corn
  2   cups milk
   1/2   cup heavy whipping cream
    salt
    pepper
  1   (6 ounce) can crabmeat

1 Add onion and butter to soup pot and saute.
2 Add flour and curry powder.
3 Cook for 2 minutes.
4 While this is cooking, chop corn in food processor or blender.
5 Add corn to onion mixture and cook for 5 minutes.
6 Add milk, cream, and salt& pepper (to taste).
7 Bring to boil.
8 Stir in crab meat.
9 Serve hot.




 Cajun Crab Soup #23520
posted by Garnet 3/28/2002
So fast, easy and super delicious.

40 minutes (15 min prep, 25 min cooking)
6 servings

   1/2   cup butter
  1   onion, chopped
  2   cloves garlic, minced
   1/4   cup flour
  2   cups clam juice
  2   cups chicken broth
  1   (10 ounce) package frozen white corn
  1   teaspoon salt
   1/2   teaspoon white pepper
   1/4   teaspoon cayenne pepper
   1/4   teaspoon thyme
  2   cups heavy cream
  1   lb canned crabmeat, drained
  4   green onions, chopped

1 In a large sauce pan, melt butter over medium heat.
2 Stir in onion and garlic and saute until onion is translucent.
3 Stir in flour and cook for 2 minutes.
4 Stir in clam juice and chicken broth.
5 Bring to a boil.
6 Add corn, salt, peppers, and thyme, mix well.
7 Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes.
8 Stir in cream and crab meat.
9 Heat through.
10 Add green onions, mix well and serve.



 Crab Stuffed Mushrooms #3054
posted by WildlifeDi 9/30/1999
This recipe came from Southern Living Magazine years ago.....make copies of
it to take with you wherever you serve it! They will ask for it

6 servings

  12   large mushrooms
  2   tablespoons salad oil
  1   (6 ounce) package frozen crabmeat, thawed and drained (or use fresh..I do)
  1   egg, lightly beaten
  2   tablespoons mayonnaise
  2   tablespoons onions, finely chopped
  1   teaspoon lemon juice
   1/2   cup soft breadcrumbs, divided equally
  2   tablespoons butter or margarine , melted

1 Gently rinse mushrooms, and pat dry.
2 Remove stems.
3 Brush caps with salad oil, and place upright in a buttered baking dish.
4 Combine the egg, crab, mayonnaise, onion, and lemon juice with 1/4 cup breadcrumbs.
5 Stuff the caps with the mixture. Combine the remaining 1/4 cup breadcrumbs with the melted butter.
6 Sprinkle over crab mixture. Bake at 375 for 15 minutes.
7 They should be a golden brown on the breadcrumb/butter topping.
8 Serve immediately.
9 Also, caution when they are served.
10 There will be juice in the cap under the mixture which will be VERY hot.



 Crab filled mushrooms #19291
posted by secret 2/10/2002

1 hour 5 minutes (45 min prep, 20 min cooking)
24 servings or 24 appetizers

  24   fresh large mushrooms
   1/4   cup cream cheese, softened
  1   tablespoon grated parmesan cheese
  2   tablespoons plain yogurt
  2   tablespoons fresh lemon juice
   1/8   teaspoon ground red pepper
  1   (10 2/3 ounce) cup fresh lump crabmeat, drained
   1/4   cup minced red bell peppers
  2   tablespoons minced green onions

1 Remove mushroom stems, and discard, set caps aside.
2 Combine next 5 ingredients in a bowl, stir well.
3 Gently fold in crabmeat, bell pepper and green onion.
4 Spoon 1 tbsp crabmeat mixture into each mushroom cap.
5 Place stuffed mushrooms in a 13X9X2-inch baking dish.
6 Bake at 350 for 20 minutes.
7 Serve warm.



 Tex-Mex Crab Bites #28484
posted by Mille 5/15/2002
These are on my personal "Top 10 Dinner Party Appetizers" list!

30 minutes (20 min prep, 10 min cooking)
4-8 servings or 16 crab bites
Update to: crab bites US Metric

  1 1/2   cups crabmeat, drained
  1   tablespoon fresh lemon juice
   1/2   teaspoon grated lemon, rind of
  1   green onion, minced
  2   tablespoons fresh minced parsley
  1   teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
  1   teaspoon prepared hot mustard
  3 to 5   dashes of tabasco hot pepper sauce, to taste
  2   tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
    French bread, sliced into about 16 pieces and toasted
   1/2   cup grated sharp cheddar cheese

1 Preheat broiler.
2 Combine crab, lemon juice and lemon peel, green onion, parsley,
Worcestershire sauce, and Tabasco.
3 Taste and adjust seasonings.
4 Brush melted butter on toast rounds and arrange in a single layer in a
broiler pan.
5 Top each with a portion of the crab mixture, then with 1½ teaspoons cheese.
6 Broil until cheese is melted and crab mixture is hot.




 Crab Stuffed Chicken Breasts #7197
posted by Recipezaar 3/6/2000
1 hour
6 servings

  6   chicken breasts
   1/2   cup onions, chopped
   1/2   cup celery, chopped
  3   tablespoons butter
  3   tablespoons white wine, dry
  7 1/2   ounces crabmeat, flaked
   1/2   cup herb stuffing mix
  2   tablespoons all-purpose flour
   1/2   teaspoon paprika
  1   packet hollandaise sauce mix
   3/4   cup milk
  2   tablespoons white wine, dry
   1/2   cup swiss cheese, shredded
    salt
    pepper

1 Skin & bone chicken breasts; pound to flatten.
2 Sprinkle with a little salt and pepper.
3 Cook onion and celery in 3T butter until tender.
4 Remove from heat; add 3T wine, the crab and stuffing mix, and toss.
5 Divide mixture among breasts.
6 Roll up and secure.
7 Combine flour, paprika.
8 Coat chicken.
9 Place in 11" X 7" X 2" baking dish , drizzle with 2T melted butter.
10 Bake uncovered in 375 degree oven for 1 hour.
11 Transfer to platter.
12 Blend hollandaise sauce mix, milk.
13 Cook, stirring, until thick.
14 Add remaining wine and cheese.
15 Stir until cheese melts.
16 Serve over chicken.



Vegetable Curry [Miavita]

Ingredients

Cooking spray
1 - small onion, cut into small dice
1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh garlic
4 teaspoons curry powder
1 - head cauliflower, cut into florets (4 cups)
6 - medium carrots, peeled and sliced
2 - medium baking potatoes, peeled and diced
2 1/2 cups (20 fl oz/600 ml) canned vegetable broth
1/4 teaspoon sea salt

Preparation - Estimated cooking time: 30-60 minutes -
1 Spray a large saucepan once with cooking spray and set over low heat. Add
  onions and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes, until translucent.
2 Add garlic and curry powder and cook, stirring, for 15 seconds.
3 Add cauliflower, carrots, potatoes, broth and salt. Cover and simmer until
  potatoes are soft, about 25 minutes.

Notes: This is very good! It results in perhaps a little too much broth for my
liking, which tends to dilute the curry flavor. As a result, I used a good bit
more curry powder than called for. Also, this makes a *lot* of vegetable
curry! Lastly, the potatoes can take forever to cook if added raw. I strongly
suggest parboiling them after dicing them, unless the pieces are very small.


Sweet and Sour Pork

Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse, 2002
1/2 cup pineapple juice
1/2 cup ketchup
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup water
4 teaspoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon sesame oil
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 tablespoons minced ginger
2 teaspoons minced garlic
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons sherry
2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil
1 pound lean pork shoulder, cubed
2 teaspoons Essence, recipe follows
1 green bell pepper, stemmed and seeded, cut into strips
1/2 medium yellow onion, thinly sliced
2 cups cubed pineapple
Steamed white basmati rice, accompaniment
1/4 cup chopped toasted macadamia nuts, garnish
1/4 cup chopped green onions, garnish

In a bowl, combine the pineapple juice, ketchup, brown sugar, vinegar, water,
soy sauce, pepper flakes, and sesame oil. In a medium saucepan, heat 1
tablespoon of the oil over medium-high heat. Add the ginger and garlic, and
cook, stirring, for 15 seconds. Add the pineapple juice mixture and bring to a
boil. Reduce the heat and simmer, stirring, until the sugar dissolves, 2 to 3
minutes.

In a bowl, dissolve the cornstarch in the sherry. Add to the simmering sauce
and whisking constantly. Reduce the heat and simmer until thickened, 2 to 3
minutes. Remove from the heat.

Season the pork with the Essence. In a wok or large saute pan, heat 1
tablespoon of the oil over high heat, swirling to coat the sides. Add the pork
and cook, stirring, until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove and drain on
paper towels.

Return the wok to high heat. Add the remaining tablespoon of oil, swirling to
coat the sides. Add the bell peppers and onions, and cook, stirring, until
wilted, 1 to 2 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium-high. Add the sauce and
bring to a boil until thickened. Add the pineapple and pork, and cook,
stirring, until warmed through, 1 minute. Remove from the heat and adjust the
seasoning to taste. Divide the rice among 4 dinner plates, and top with the
pork and sauce. Garnish each with the nuts and green onions, and serve
immediately.



Creamy Horseradish Dipping Sauce

1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 tablespoon prepared horseradish
2 teaspoons white distilled vinegar
1 teaspoon water
1 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon ketchup
1/4 teaspoon medium grind black pepper
1/8 teaspoon dried oregano
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
dash garlic powder
dash onion powder

Combine ingredients in a medium bowl with a whisk. Mix until creamy then
cover and chill the sauce.

This is Applebee's horseradish dipping sauce for their onion peels. 



Applebee's Honey Pepper Sauce
3/4 cup honey
1/3 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup dark brown sugar, packed
1/4 cup pineapple juice
juice of 1 lemon (about 2 tablespoons)
2 tablespoons white distilled vinegar
2 teaspoons olive oil
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder

Combine all ingredients in a medium saucepan over medium/low heat. Stir
occasionally until sauce begins to boil, then simmer uncovered for 15 minutes
or until syrupy. Watch the sauce closely to be sure it doesn't bubble over.



The Cheesecake Factory Pumpkin Cheesecake

To celebrate the holiday, here's a great dessert - a clone for one delicious
selection from The Cheesecake Factory's menu of more than 40 cheesecakes. This
clone comes to the site from the book, "Top Secret Restaurant Recipes," and
this tasty creation will make a delicious finale to your Thanksgiving dinner
table this year. Use an 8-inch springform pan for this recipe, so that you
create a tall, creamy cheesecake that comes out just like the original you can
order at this great full service restaurant chain. Here's to an awesome,
belly-stuffing Thanksgiving!

1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
5 tablespoons butter, melted
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup canned pumpkin
3 eggs
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon allspice
whipped cream

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

2. Make the crust by combining the graham cracker crumbs with the melted
butter and 1 tablespoon sugar in a medium bowl. Stir well enough to coat all
of the crumbs with the butter, but not so much as to turn the mixture into
paste. Keep it crumbly.

3. Press the crumbs onto the bottom and about two-thirds of the way up the
sides of the springform pan. You don't want the crust to form all of the way
up the back of each slice of cheesecake. Bake the crust for 5 minutes, then
set it aside until you are ready to fill it.

4. In a large mixing bowl combine the cream cheese, 1 cup sugar, and vanilla.
Mix with an electric mixer until smooth.

5. Add the pumpkin, eggs, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice and continue to beat
until smooth and creamy.

6. Pour the filling into the pan. Bake for 60 to 70 minutes. The top will
turn a bit darker at this point. Remove from the oven and allow the cheesecake
to cool.

7. When the cheesecake has come to room temperature, put it into the
refrigerator. When the cheesecake has chilled, remove the pan sides and cut
the cake into 8 equal pieces. Serve with a generous portion of whipped cream
on top.



Asparagus in Belgian Endive

24 asparagus spears
24 large outer Belgian endive leaves (2 or 3 heads)
1/4 c. olive oil
2 Tbs. white wine vinegar (I used red wine vinegar)
2 tsp. Dijon mustard
chopped parsley (I used dried)

For asparagus:  Snap off tough ends and lightly steam - tender crisp.
Separate endive leaves and place on serving plate. Place an asparagus spear on each leaf.  
Keep cold until serving time.
Make the dressing by mixing together the remaining ingredients. You can drizzle the dressing 
over the asparagus/endive just before serving or let
people do the drizzling themselves.

NOTES: A simple and elegent side dish. The asparagus is best if only lightly
steamed.



Cheesecake Factory
Sweet Corn Tamale Cakes

Salsa Verde
2 tomatillos, chopped (remove papery skin)
1 4-ounce can mild green chilies
1 green onion
2 tablespoons fresh cilantro
1 1/4 teaspoons granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper

Southwestern Sauce
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 teaspoon white vinegar
1 teaspoon water
3/4 teaspoon granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon chili powder
1/4 teaspoon paprika
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/8 teaspoon onion powder
dash salt
dash garlic powder

Tomato Salsa
1 medium tomato
1 tablespoon minced Spanish onion
1 tablespoon fresh cilantro, minced
1/4 teaspoon lime juice
1/2 small fresh jalapeno, minced
dash salt
dash ground black pepper

Cakes
1 1/2 cups frozen sweet corn
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, softened
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup corn masa (corn flour)
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Garnish
1/4 cup sour cream
1/2 avocado, chopped
2 tablespoons fresh cilantro, coarsely chopped [Passion for Cooking]

1. Prepare salsa verde by combining all ingredients (tomatillos, green
chilies, green onion, cilantro, sugar, cumin, salt, and pepper) in a food
processor on high speed. Cover and chill.

2. Prepare tomato salsa by combining all ingredients (diced tomato, onion,
cilantro, lime juice, jalapeno, salt, and pepper) in a small bowl. Cover and
chill.

3. Prepare southwestern sauce by combining all ingredients (mayonnaise,
vinegar, water, sugar, chili powder, paprika, cayenne, onion powder, salt, and
garlic powder) in a small bowl. Cover and chill.

4. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.

5. Prepare the tamale cakes by chopping 1 cup of the frozen corn in a food
processor until it's coarsely pureed. Combine pureed corn with softened
butter, sugar, and salt. Blend well with electric mixer until smooth.

6. Add masa and flour and blend well. Mix in the remaining 1/2 cup of frozen
corn kernels by hand.

7. Measure 1/2 cup portions of the mixture and form it into 3-inch wide
patties with your hands. arrange the patties on a baking sheet and bake for 25
to 30 minutes or until the cakes are browned on the bottom. Carefully flip all
cakes with a spatula and bake for an additional 5 to 7 minutes or until other
side is browned.

8. While the cakes are baking, spoon a portion of the salsa verde onto a
plate or platter (you may want to heat up your plate in the oven for a bit to
help warm the sauce). You'll need to use enough salsa verde to coat the entire
plate -- it should be about 1/4-inch deep. Arrange the tamale cakes
side-by-side on the salsa verde. Spoon a dollop of sour cream onto each tamale
cake. Drizzle the southwestern sauce over the cakes in a criss-cross patter
(use a squirt bottle if you've got one -- see "Tidbits"). Spoon some tomato
salsa over the cakes, followed by the chopped avocado.  Finish off the plate
by sprinkling the coarsely chopped cilantro leaves over the top.

Notes: I had these at the restaurant once, and they were really good. We
haven't tried making them yet - it looks to be quite a job! Rest assured,
though, that the end product is very tasty.



The Cheesecake Factory
Bang-Bang Chicken & Shrimp

Curry Sauce
2 teaspoons chili oil
1/4 cup minced onion
2 tablespoons minced garlic
2 teaspoons minced ginger
1 cup chicken broth
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon ground mace
1/4 teaspoon turmeric
3 cups coconut milk

2 medium carrots, julienned
1 small zucchini, julienned
1/2 cup frozen peas

Peanut Sauce
1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
2 tablespoons water
4 teaspoons sugar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
1 teaspoon lime juice
1/2 teaspoon chili oil

2 chicken breast fillets
16 large raw shrimp, shelled
1/4 cup corn starch
1/2 cup vegetable oil

4 cups cooked white rice

Garnish
1 1/2 cups flaked coconut
1/2 teaspoon dried parsley, crumbled
2 tablespoons chopped peanuts
2 green onions, julienned
[Passion for Cooking]

1. Make the curry sauce by heating the chili oil in a large saucepan over
medium heat. When the oil is hot add the onion, garlic, and ginger. Sauté for
about about 30 seconds then add the chicken broth. Add the spices (cumin,
coriander, paprika, salt, black pepper, and turmeric) and stir well. Simmer
for 5 minutes then add the coconut milk. Bring mixture back up to a boil, then
reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes or until sauce begins to thicken. Add
the julienned carrots and zucchini, and the frozen peas. Simmer mixture for 10
minutes or until carrots become tender.

2. Make peanut sauce by combining peanut butter, water, sugar, soy sauce,
rice vinegar, lime juice, and chili oil in a small saucepan over medium heat.
Heat just until mixture begins to bubble, then cover the pan and remove it
from the heat.

3. Toast the flaked coconut by preheating your oven to 300 degrees. Spread
coconut on a baking sheet and toast it in the oven. Stir the coconut around
every 10 minutes or so that it browns evenly, but watch it closely in the last
5 minutes so it doesn't get too dark. After 25 to 30 minutes the coconut
should be light brown. Take it out of the oven and let it cool.

4. Cut the chicken breasts into bite-size pieces. Coat the chicken and shrimp
with corn starch. Heat the vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium
heat. Add the coated chicken to the pan and sauté it for a couple minutes,
turning as it cooks. Add the shrimp to the pan. Cook the shrimp and chicken
for a couple minutes, until it's done, then remove everything to a rack or
towel to drain.

5. Build the two plates (or you can divide the meal into four portions) by
filling a soup bowl with 2 cups of white rice. Press down on the rice. Invert
the bowl onto the center of a plate, tap it a bit, then lift off the bowl
leaving a formed pile of rice in the center of each plate. Arrange an equal
portion of chicken and shrimp around the rice. Spoon the curry sauce and
vegetables over the chicken and shrimp, being careful not to get any sauce on
top of the rice.

6. Drizzle peanut sauce over the dish concentrating most of it on the rice.
Sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon of crumbled, dried parsley over the center of the rice.
Add a tablespoon of chopped peanuts on the parsley, then place a pile of
julienned green onions on top. Sprinkle 1/2 cup to 3/4 cup of toasted coconut
over the chicken and shrimp and serve it up.

Makes 2 large entrees.



BRUSCHETTA DIP

Ingredients:
1/4 cup of olive oil
1 tablespoon of parsley
1 tablespoon of basil
2 large cloves of garlic, minced 
2 chopped Roma tomatoes (or a small can of diced tomatoes, drained)
1 medium onion, minced
4.5 ounces of Brie cheese (or Mozzarella)

Directions:
Throw all ingredients into a microwave safe bowl.  "Nuke" for about 2
minutes then stir.  Continue microwaving and stirring until everything is
melted. SERVE!

Serve with french bread slices or crackers.




Olive Garden Bruschetta al Pomodoro

4 medium tomatoes
6-8 fresh basil leaves, chopped
8 slices crusty bread
2-3 cloves garlic
6 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
Salt (as needed)
Pepper (as needed)

Chop tomatoes, season with salt, pepper, chopped basil, and oil. Grill
bread, brush with garlic and top with tomatoes.

NOTES: This is a wonderful summer dish. It can be made with vine ripened
tomatoes from the supermarket, but only home-grown fresh tomatoes really do
the job well. The fresh basil is critical; I would not even attempt the dish
with dried basil. Also, get the best quality olive oil possible; this is one
dish where you'll be able to taste the difference.



SPICY CAJUN CRAB AND GREENS SOUP (not transcribed)

Cajun seasoning spikes this soup with heat, so adjust according to your taste.
Serve with: Jalapeño corn bread and carrot sticks.
Dessert: Cheesecake topped with thawed sliced frozen peaches.

1/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup all purpose flour
3 to 5 teaspoons Cajun seasoning
2 1/2 cups bottled clam juice
2 14 1/2-ounce cans diced tomatoes with caramelized onion, in juice
1 6-ounce bag baby spinach leaves
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme
1 garlic clove, pressed
1 pound lump crabmeat

Whisk oil and flour in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until
smooth and golden brown, about 3 minutes. Add enough Cajun seasoning to season
to taste and stir 30 seconds. Add clam juice and stir until smooth. Add
tomatoes with juices. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer 3 minutes. Add
spinach, thyme, and garlic and simmer until spinach is just wilted, about 1
minute. Add crabmeat and simmer until heated through, stirring gently. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Ladle soup into bowls and serve.

Makes 6 servings.



Benihana Japanese Onion Soup

4 cups canned chicken broth
2 cups water
1 white onion
1/2 carrot, coarsely chopped (about 1/4 cup)
1/2 celery stalk, coarsely chopped (about 1/4 cup)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup milk
1 cup all-purpose flour
6 medium mushrooms, thinly sliced
4 green onions, diced (green part only) [Passion for Cooking]

1. Combine chicken broth and water in a large saucepan over high heat. Slice
the white onion in half, then coarsely chop one half (save the other half for
later). Add coarsely chopped onion, carrot, celery and salt to the saucepan
and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes, or until the
onions start to become translucent.

2. As the broth simmers, heat up 1 cup of vegetable oil in a small saucepan
over medium heat. Slice the remaining white onion into very thin slices.
Separate the slices, dip the slices into the milk, then into the flour. Fry
the breaded onions, a handful at a time in the oil until golden brown. Drain
on a paper towel.

3. When the soup has simmered for 10 minutes, strain the vegetables out of
the broth and toss them out. Pour the broth back into the pan and keep it hot
over low heat.

4. To serve soup, ladle about 1 cup of broth into a bowl. Drop a few pieces
of fried onion into the soup, followed by 6 to 8 mushroom slices (about 1
mushroom each) and a couple pinches of diced green onion. When the fried
onions sink to the bottom of the bowl (a couple of minutes), serve the soup.

Makes 6 servings.



Benihana Japanese Fried Rice

4 cups cooked converted or parboiled rice (1 cup uncooked)
1 cup frozen peas, thawed
2 tablespoons finely grated carrot
2 eggs, beaten
1/2 cup diced onion (1/2 small onion)
1 1/2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons soy sauce
salt
pepper

1. Cook rice following instructions on package (Bring 2 cups water to a boil,
add rice and a dash of salt, reduce heat and simmer in covered saucepan for 20
minutes). Pour rice into a large bowl to let it cool in the refrigerator.

2. Scramble the eggs in a small pan over medium heat. Separate the scrambled
chunks of egg into small pea-size bits while cooking.

3. When rice has cooled to near room temperature, add peas, grated carrot,
scrambled egg and diced onion to the bowl. Carefully toss all of the
ingredients together.

4. Melt 1 1/2 tablespoons of butter in a large frying pan over medium/high
heat.

5. When butter has completely melted, dump the bowl of rice and other
ingredients into the pan and add soy sauce plus a dash of salt and pepper.
Cook rice for 6-8 minutes over heat, stirring often.

Serves 4


Benihana Ginger Salad Dressing (transcribed)

1/2 cup minced onion
1/2 cup peanut oil
1/3 cup rice vinegar
2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger (try increasing to 3-4 T)
2 tablespoons minced celery
2 tablespoons ketchup (try reducing to 1 T)
4 teaspoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon minced garlic
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper

Combine all ingredients in a blender. Blend on high speed for about 30
seconds or until all of the ginger is well-pureed.

Notes: Good. A little more ketchupy than expected; needs more ginger.



Shrimp and Snow Pea Soup (not transcribed)

Look for rice stick noodles at large supermarkets or any Asian grocery. Rice
vermicelli or fresh rice noodles can be substituted. When asparagus is in
season, it makes a wonderful addition to the soup. Trim 1 pound (480 g) thin
asparagus, cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces and add along with the snow peas.

12 ounces (360 g) medium shrimp, peeled
3 tablespoons mirin (Japanese seasoning wine)
2 tablespoons low-sodium tamari soy sauce
1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger
1/2 teaspoon dark sesame oil
1 teaspoon cornstarch
3 - green onions
4 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons defatted low-sodium chicken broth
4 - quarter-size slices peeled fresh ginger
3 ounces (90 g) Chinese rice stick noodles
4 ounces (120 g) fresh snow peas, trimmed and cut in half lengthwise
  (about 1 cup)

1 Using a sharp knife, slice shrimp along the back almost to other edge to
reveal the dark vein. Remove the vein and rinse shrimp. Place in a bowl and
toss with 2 tablespoons of the mirin, 1 tablespoon of the tamari, the minced
ginger and sesame oil. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes.

2 Combine cornstarch and 2 tablespoons of the chicken broth; stir well and set
aside.

3 Thinly slice the green onions, keeping the white parts and green
parts separate.

4 Combine the remaining 4 1/2 cups (36 fl oz/1 liter) broth, 1
tablespoon mirin, 1 tablespoon tamari, ginger slices, and the sliced white
part of the onion in a large saucepan. Heat over medium-high heat until the
broth begins to boil. Cover, reduce the heat, and simmer for 10 minutes.

5 With kitchen shears, snip rice sticks into shorter lengths. Add the rice
sticks, shrimp and snow peas to the soup and return to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 2 minutes. Add the cornstarch mixture
and cook, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened. 6 Ladle the soup into
bowls and sprinkle each with minced green onion tops.


Spanish Rice

1/2   cup chopped onions
1/2   cup chopped green peppers
2/3   cup rice
salt
black pepper
3 1/2   cups canned tomatoes

1. Combine all the ingred.
2. and pour into casserole.
3. Bake 350 oven for 1 hour, check to see if done, may take a little longer.
4. Stir occasionally.

NOTES: Yet another wonderful tasting dish that is very easy to put together.




GRILLED CHICKEN MOROCCAN STYLE

Start marinating the chicken four to six hours ahead.

1 cup olive oil
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
3 tablespoons ground cumin
1 1/2 tablespoons ground coriander
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons salt
2 teaspoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
4 large chicken breast halves with skin and ribs, cut crosswise in half
4 chicken legs
4 chicken thighs

1/4 cup minced fresh parsley

Whisk first 8 ingredients in large glass baking dish. Add all chicken; turn
to coat. Cover with plastic wrap; chill 4 to 6 hours.

Prepare barbecue (medium heat). Place marinade-coated chicken on barbecue.
Grill chicken until just cooked through, occasionally brushing with any
remaining marinade, about 10 minutes per side for breasts and about 12 minutes
per side for leg and thigh pieces. Transfer chicken to platter. Sprinkle with
parsley.



<STOP TRANSCRIPTION>



Broccoli and Roasted Red Pepper Pasta

Ingredients

2 red bell peppers
1 teaspoon  balsamic vinegar
1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes
Sea salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper to taste
2 cups broccoli florets
12 ounces penne or other sturdy pasta
Olive oil cooking spray
1 tablespoon  chopped fresh garlic
1 or 2 anchovy fillets (optional), chopped
2 vine-ripened tomatoes, seeded and diced
2 teaspoons  dried basil
4 tablespoons  freshly grated Parmesan cheese


Preparation - Estimated cooking time: Under 30 minutes -
1 Preheat the broiler. Place peppers on a broiling pan. Broil, turning
frequently, until skins blister and turn black. Transfer the peppers to a
bowl, cover with plastic wrap and set aside for 10 minutes.
2 To peel peppers, place under cool running water and peel away blistered
skins. Slice open and wash out seeds. Place the peppers in a food processor or
blender; add balsamic vinegar, crushed red pepper flakes, salt and pepper.
Puree until smooth.
3 Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add broccoli florets and cook
for 1 minute. Scoop out the broccoli with a slotted spoon and set aside. Bring
the water back to a boil.
4 Cook pasta until al dente, about 8 minutes.
5 Meanwhile, spray a large skillet with cooking spray and place pan over
medium-low heat. Add garlic and chopped anchovies, if using. Cook, stirring,
for 30 seconds. Stir in tomatoes and increase the heat to medium. When the
tomatoes begin to simmer, stir in pepper puree and broccoli; cook for 2
minutes. Stir in basil and remove from the heat.
6 Drain the pasta and add to the skillet, stirring to coat.
7 Spoon into shallow bowls and garnish each with 1 tablespoon grated Parmesan.



Thai Green Curry Chicken *

2  teaspoons  olive oil
2  teaspoons  minced fresh ginger
1  pound  (480g) skinless boneless chicken breasts, cut crosswise into thin strips
1  cup  (8 fl oz/240ml) fat-free low-sodium chicken broth
1/2  cup  (4 fl oz/120ml) evaporated skim milk
1 - 3  teaspoons  Thai green curry paste
1/4  cup  thinly sliced fresh basil
1  tablespoon  chopped fresh cilantro
1/4  teaspoon  coconut extract (optional)
1/2  teaspoon  salt
1/2  teaspoon  freshly ground pepper
1 1/2  cups  (6 oz/180g) snow peas or sugar snap peas, strings removed
3 to 4  -  green onions (white and green parts), diagonally cut into 1-inch (2.5cm) pieces


Preparation - Estimated cooking time: under 30 minutes -
1 Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add 1 teaspoon
of ginger, and sauté for 1 minute. Add chicken and sauté for 4 to 5 minutes or
until lightly browned. Using a slotted spoon, transfer chicken to a bowl and
set aside.

2 Pour chicken broth and evaporated milk into skillet. Stir in curry paste, 2
tablespoons of the basil, cilantro, the remaining 1 teaspoon ginger, coconut
extract, if using, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer
for 8 minutes or until the sauce thickens.

3 Return the chicken and juices to the skillet. Add snow peas and green
onions; simmer for 3 to 5 minutes, or until chicken is cooked through. Remove
from heat and stir in the remaining 2 tablespoons basil.




Applebee's Low-Fat and Fabulous™ Brownie Sundae

Low-Fat Brownie
2 egg whites
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup Hershey's chocolate syrup
1/2 cup fudge topping
1/4 cup warm water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup cocoa
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons chopped walnuts

9 scoops fat-free vanilla frozen yogurt
Hershey's chocolate syrup, heated

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

2. Make the brownie cake by whipping the egg whites in a large bowl (not
plastic) with an electric mixer until they become thick.

3. Add the sugar to the egg whites and continue beating until the mixture
forms soft peaks.

4. To the egg white and sugar mixture, add the shortening, chocolate syrup,
fudge topping, water, and vanilla.

5. In a separate bowl, combine the flour, cocoa, salt, and baking soda.

6. While beating the wet mixture, slowly add the dry mixture and mix until
smooth.

7. Lightly grease a 9-inch pie pan with shortening. Pour the brownie batter
into the pan and sprinkle the chopped walnuts over the top. Bake for 35
minutes or until a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean.

8. When the brownie pie has cooled a bit, slice it into 9 equal pie-shaped
portions.

9. Arrange a slice of the low-fat brownie pie on a plate next to a scoop of
vanilla frozen yogurt.

10. Drizzle the warmed chocolate sauce over the top of the brownie and frozen
yogurt, and serve.





INDIAN-SPICED SHRIMP *
Active time: 40 min Start to finish: 40 min

1 medium onion, halved lengthwise, then thinly sliced lengthwise
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 tablespoon minced fresh jalapeño, including seeds
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground coriander
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon turmeric (optional)
1 lb tomatoes (3 medium), cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 lb large shrimp in shell (21 to 25 per lb), peeled and deveined
1/2 cup loosely packed fresh cilantro leaves, chopped if desired

Cook onion in oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderate heat, stirring
occasionally, until golden, 6 to 8 minutes.

Add jalapeño, garlic, and ginger and cook, stirring, until jalapeño is
softened and garlic is golden, about 1 minute.

Add cumin, coriander, salt, and turmeric (if using) and cook, stirring, until
fragrant, about 1 minute. Add tomatoes and cook, stirring occasionally, until
tomatoes break down and sauce is thickened, 3 to 5 minutes.

Add shrimp and cook, turning occasionally, until just cooked through, about 3
minutes. Remove skillet from heat and stir in half of cilantro. Serve
sprinkled with remaining cilantro.

Makes 4 main-course servings.




Butternut Squash and Apple Soup

2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter
1 large onion, chopped
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
4 1/4 pounds butternut squash, peeled, seeded, cut into 1-inch cubes
4 1/4 cups (or more) vegetable broth
1 Gala apple, peeled, cored, diced
1/2 cup apple juice
Light sour cream
Chopped fresh chives

Melt butter in large pot over medium-high heat. Add onion and nutmeg; sauté
until onion begins to brown, about 5 minutes. Add squash, 4 1/4 cups broth,
apple, and apple juice. Bring to boil; reduce heat and simmer uncovered until
squash and apple are tender, about 30 minutes. Working in batches, puree soup
in blender until smooth. Return soup to pot. Season to taste with salt and
pepper.

Bring soup to simmer, thinning with more broth if desired. Ladle soup into
bowls. Garnish with sour cream and chives.

Makes 8 servings.

Notes: This is really good! We used an acorn squash and chicken stock as that's
what was on hand. The nutmeg adds good flavor without making the soup resemble
pumpkin pie too much. There is a nice balance between sweet and savory.



Red Curry Shrimp

1 tablespoon red curry paste
1 13.5-ounce can unsweetened coconut milk
1 8-ounce bottle clam juice
1 1/4 pounds uncooked large shrimp, peeled, deveined
1/3 cup chopped fresh cilantro
1 lime, cut into 8 wedges

Stir red curry paste in large skillet over medium-high heat until fragrant,
about 1 minute. Add coconut milk and clam juice and bring to boil, whisking
until paste dissolves. Boil until sauce is thick enough to coat spoon,
stirring occasionally, about 7 minutes. Add shrimp to sauce. Cook until shrimp
turn pink and are just opaque in center, turning occasionally, about 4
minutes. Stir in cilantro. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide shrimp
and sauce among 4 shallow bowls. Garnish with lime wedges and serve.

Notes: Watch that red curry paste - it has quite a kick to it!



Butternut Squash and Chickpea Tagine

Spicy, sweet and satisfying -- you'll love the flavors in this effortless
Middle Eastern vegetable stew. Serve with whole-wheat couscous; sliced
tomatoes garnished with fresh mint leaves; nonfat plain yogurt; imported
olives.

Ingredients

1  tbsp.  olive oil
1  -  medium onion, chopped
2  cups  cubed butternut squash
1  -  can vegetable or chicken broth (10 oz.)
1  -  pinch each of ground cinnamon, ginger, turmeric and/or cumin
1  -  can chickpeas (15 oz.), rinsed and drained

Preparation - Estimated cooking time: under 30 minutes -

1 Heat olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add onions and cook until
they begin to soften, about 5 minutes.

2 Add squash, broth, spices and salt; simmer until squash is soft, about 10
minutes.

3 Add chickpeas and cook until heated through. Stir in harissa or other hot
sauce to taste.




Chicken Brochettes with Feta and Peppers  *

Ingredients

1  cup  (8 oz/240 g) plain nonfat yogurt
1/4  cup  (1 oz/30 g) crumbled feta cheese
2  cloves  garlic, crushed
2  teaspoons  minced fresh rosemary
1/2  teaspoon  freshly ground black pepper
12  ounces  (360 g) chicken tenders, cut into 1 1/2-inch (4-cm) pieces
1  -  medium red bell pepper, seeded and cut into 1 1/2-inch (4-cm) pieces
1  -  medium yellow bell pepper, seeded and cut into 1 1/2-inch (4-cm) pieces
4  -  10- to 12-inch-long) wooden skewers or woody rosemary sprigs, soaked in
  water for 30 minutes
1/2  teaspoon  sea salt


Preparation - Estimated cooking time: 30-60 minutes -

1 Mix yogurt, 3 tablespoons of the feta, garlic, rosemary and pepper in a
large bowl. Add chicken pieces and toss to coat. Cover and let stand for 30
minutes, stirring occasionally.

2 Light an outdoor grill or heat a stovetop grill pan over medium-high heat.
Coat the grill rack or pan with cooking spray. Thread the chicken and bell
pepper pieces alternately onto skewers or rosemary sprigs (spear from base
end). Sprinkle the brochettes with salt. Grill until the chicken is cooked
through, turning occasionally, about 6 minutes.

3 Transfer the brochettes to a serving platter. Sprinkle with the remaining
feta cheese and serve.



ORANGE SOUFFLE

Active time: 20 min Start to finish: 40 min
1 cup whole milk
1/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
4 large eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
Confectioners sugar for dusting

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400°F. Butter a 9
1/2-inch deep-dish glass pie plate.

Bring milk, 1/4 cup granulated sugar, cornstarch, and zest to a boil over
moderate heat in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, whisking constantly. Boil,
whisking, 1 minute. Remove from heat and whisk in butter, juice, and liqueur
until butter is melted, then whisk in yolks until blended.

Beat whites with salt in a large bowl using an electric mixer at medium speed
until they just hold soft peaks. Add remaining 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
a little at a time, beating, then beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.

Fold one fourth of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in
remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spread in pie plate with a rubber
spatula and bake until puffed and golden, 16 to 18 minutes. Dust with
confectioners sugar and serve immediately.



BROCCOLI AND PARSNIP SOUP
Active time: 25 min Start to finish: 1 hr
1 lb broccoli
6 cups water
1 1/2 teaspoons salt, or to taste
3 fresh parsley sprigs
3 fresh thyme sprigs or 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme, crumbled
1 Turkish or 1/2 California bay leaf
1/2 lb parsnips, peeled, halved lengthwise, and cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices
1 cup chopped onion (1 medium)
1 cup low-sodium chicken broth
1/4 teaspoon black pepper, or to taste
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg, or to taste

Special equipment: cheesecloth; kitchen string

Cut off and discard tough lower third of broccoli stems, then peel remaining
stem and cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Cut remaining broccoli into
2-inch-wide florets.

Bring water to a boil in a 4-quart heavy pot, then add broccoli and 1
teaspoon salt and boil, uncovered, until broccoli is just tender, about 5
minutes. Transfer with a slotted spoon to a bowl of ice and cold water to stop
cooking, reserving cooking water in pot, then drain broccoli.

Wrap parsley, thyme, and bay leaf in a small square of cheesecloth and tie
into a bundle to make a bouquet garni. Add to reserved cooking water along
with parsnips, onion, and chicken broth and simmer, covered, until parsnips
are very tender, 25 to 30 minutes.

Discard bouquet garni and reserve 1 cup cooking liquid, then purée remaining
soup with broccoli, in batches if necessary, in a blender until smooth (use
caution when blending hot liquids). Transfer puréed soup to another pot and
thin to desired consistency with reserved cooking liquid. Stir in pepper,
nutmeg, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt (or to taste) and bring to a simmer
over moderate heat, stirring occasionally.




STANDING RIB ROAST WITH ROSEMARY-THYME CRUST
An herb crust and special Zinfandel sauce give new meaning to the word
flavorful. What to drink: A full-bodied, tannin-rich Bordeaux or Cabernet
Sauvignon.

1 9- to 9 1/2-pound standing beef rib roast (about 4 ribs), all but
thin layer of fat trimmed
1/4 cup Dijon mustard
2 tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme
32 fresh baby carrots, green tops trimmed to 1 inch, peeled
16 large shallots, peeled

3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
3 1/2 cups Zinfandel Beef Stock

Place beef, fat side up, in large shallow roasting pan or on rimmed baking
sheet. Sprinkle beef all over with salt and pepper. Spread mustard all over
beef. Mix rosemary and thyme in small bowl; sprinkle over beef and press
lightly to adhere. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

Position rack just below center of oven and preheat to 450°F. Roast beef
uncovered 15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325°F. Roast beef 1 hour 30
minutes. Remove from oven. Spoon off all but 2 tablespoons drippings. Add
carrots and shallots to pan. Turn vegetables to coat with drippings; sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Roast beef and vegetables until thermometer inserted
into center of beef registers 125°F for medium-rare, stirring vegetables
occasionally, about 55 minutes longer. Transfer beef and vegetables to
platter; tent loosely with foil to keep warm.

Discard drippings from roasting pan. Place pan over 2 burners on stove top
over medium heat. Add butter to pan and melt. Add flour; whisk until smooth
and just beginning to color, about 5 minutes. Whisk in stock. Boil until sauce
thickens slightly, whisking often, about 10 minutes. Season sauce to taste
with salt and pepper. Serve beef with vegetables and sauce.


ZINFANDEL BEEF STOCK
It's worth the extra effort to make this rich stock; the slow-simmered taste
produces a sauce that far exceeds any made with canned beef broth. This recipe
is an accompaniment for Standing Rib Roast with Rosemary-Thyme Crust.

2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3 1/2 to 4 pounds meaty beef bones (such as neck bones, beef back ribs, or
crosscut beef shank)
2 cups chopped onions
2/3 cup chopped carrots
2/3 cup chopped celery
3 quarts cold water
1 cup Zinfandel or other hearty red wine
4 large fresh thyme sprigs
3 large fresh parsley sprigs
1/4 teaspoon whole black peppercorns

Heat oil in large pot over medium-high heat. Add beef bones; sprinkle with
salt and pepper. Sauté until deep brown, turning occasionally, about 15
minutes. Using tongs, transfer bones to bowl. Add onions, carrots, and celery
to pot. Sauté until deep brown, about 10 minutes. Return bones and any juices
to pot. Add 3 quarts cold water, wine, and next 3 ingredients. Bring to boil.
Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until reduced to 3 1/2 cups liquid, about
3 hours. Strain stock into bowl. Refrigerate uncovered until cold, at least 4
hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.) Spoon off fat before
using stock.

Makes about 3 1/2 cups.




Andouille and Potato Soup
Recipe courtesy of Emeril Lagasse


 Recipe Summary
 Prep Time: 15 minutes  Cook Time: 40 minutes
 Yield: 6 to 8 servings
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 cups chopped onions
1 pound Andouille sausage, cut into 1-inch pieces
2 tablespoons chopped garlic
2 sprigs of fresh thyme
2 bay leaves
2 pounds white potatoes, peeled and diced
1 gallon chicken stock
Salt and black pepper
1/4 cup chopped parsley

In a large pot, over medium heat, add the olive oil. When the oil is hot, add
the onions and saute for 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Add the
sausage and continue to saute for 2 minutes. Stir in the garlic and herbs. Add
the potatoes and stock. Bring the liquid to a boil and reduce to a simmer.
Simmer the soup for 30 minutes. Add chopped parsley and season the soup with
salt and pepper.



Chicken and Dumplings
Recipe courtesy Gourmet Magazine


 Recipe Summary
 Prep Time: 15 minutes  Cook Time: 1 hour
 Yield: 6 servings
1 (3-pound) chicken, cut into parts
1 cup all-purpose flour, seasoned with salt and pepper
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
4 leeks (white and pale green parts only,) sliced thin crosswise and washed thoroughly
(about 1 1/2 cups)
4 shallots, sliced thin (about 3/4 cup)
4 carrots, peeled, halved lengthwise, and sliced
2 celery ribs with leaves, sliced
1 small bay leaf
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme, crumbled
3 cups low-salt chicken broth
1/2 cup apple cider or juice
For dumplings:
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons fresh dill, minced
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons half-and-half


Dredge chicken parts in seasoned flour, shaking off excess, and put on a
rack. In a large heavy kettle melt butter with oil over moderately high heat
until foam subsides and brown chicken in batches (do not crowd,) transferring
it to a plate as done, about 5 minutes on each side. Stir in leeks and
shallots and cook 3 minutes, scraping the bottom and stirring occasionally.
Stir in carrots, celery, bay leaf, and thyme and cook 3 minutes. Stir in
broth, cider, and chicken and bring liquid to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer,
covered partially, until chicken is cooked through, 10 to 15 minutes. For the
dumplings, in a bowl sift together flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt
and stir in dill. With a fork stir in half-and-half until dough is just
blended. With a large soup spoon scoop out 12 dumplings and arrange over
chicken mixture. Simmer chicken and dumplings, covered, 12 minutes. (Dumplings
are done when a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean.) Discard bay
leaf. Serve with a green salad.



Knocks and Chops;
knockwurst with Spiced Sauerkraut AND Smoked Pork Chops with Bacon, Apple and Onion
Recipe courtesy Rachael Ray

Knocks:
1 (16-ounce) package (4 links) knockwurst
1 tablespoon butter
1 pound sauerkraut, rinsed and drained
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
1 bay leaf
1/2 teaspoon whole peppercorns
1 cup dark German beer
Spicy mustard
1 loaf pumpernickel, sliced

Chops:
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
3 slices bacon, chopped
1 medium to large yellow onion, quartered then thinly sliced
1 green apple, cored and thinly sliced
6 thin cut boneless smoked pork chops, halved on an angle, available near
  packaged ham in meat case
1 cup dark German beer

Accompaniments:
1/2 pound each of 2 cheese selections such as: beer kaese, bruder basil, muenster
Sour pickles
1 bag Bavarian pretzels


Pierce the casings of knockwurst and arrange in medium skillet. Add 1 inch of
water, bring to a simmer and warm wursts through. Remove from the pan. Drain
the skillet and add butter. Melt butter over medium heat. Cut each knockwurst
into 1/3 and add back to the pan to crisp casings. Add sauerkraut to the pan,
sprinkle in caraway, add bay leaf and peppercorns. Pour the beer into the
skillet. When the beer comes to a bubble reduce heat to simmer.

Heat a second skillet over medium high. Add oil, 1 turn of the pan and add
chopped bacon. When the bacon renders its fat, add onions and saute 3 to 5
minutes, then add sliced apples and saute mixture another 2 or 3 minutes. Add
smoked chops to the pan and caramelize meat on both sides, 2 or 3 minutes.
Remove chops to a plate and loosely cover with foil. Pour the beer into the
pan and reduce heat to a simmer.

When you are ready to serve, cut several slices of pumpernickel in half down
the middle. Place a bowl of spicy mustard alongside the pumpernickel bread for
passing at the table.

Place 2 or 3 chunks of the knockwurst on each dinner plate on a bed of spiced
sauerkraut. Serve 3 pieces of smoked pork chops topped with bacon, apples and
onions. Place deli style large dill or half sour pickles, German cheeses and
pretzels out for an evening of uber snacking!


Parsley-Dill Potatoes
Recipe courtesy Rachael Ray

2 1/2 pounds medium to large red potatoes
3 tablespoons butter
1/4 cup chopped parsley leaves
1/4 cup chopped dill
Salt and pepper

Using a peeler or a paring knife, peel a 1/2-inch strip around the
circumference of each potato. Fill a large saucepan with cold water. Add the
potatoes and place them over high heat. Boil potatoes until fork tender, about
15 to 20 minutes. Drain and place the potatoes back into the pan on the burner
for 30 seconds to dry them out. Add the butter and toss in the herbs. Season
the potatoes with salt and pepper.

Notes: This whole meal comes together very nicely. The knockwursts and
sauerkraut contrast very nicely with the smoked chops in the apples and
onions. The potatoes are also quite good, but are the weakest link in the
entire meal. I'd probably opt to serve a nice pumpernickel and/or rye bread in
the potatoe's place. With a nice cheese or two, and some other nice sides like
spiced apple rings and pickles, the potatoes would never be missed!



Stewed Chicken And Dumplings
1    chicken, cut up in pieces
6   cups water (or use chicken broth)
4    celery ribs, chopped
2    carrots, chopped
2   medium onions, chopped
4    chicken bouillon cubes (eliminate if using chicken broth)
1   teaspoon poultry seasoning
1   teaspoon garlic powder
1   teaspoon pepper

Dumplings
1   cup flour
2   teaspoons baking powder
1   teaspoon salt
2/3   cup milk
3   teaspoons melted butter
1   teaspoon parsley

1. Put chicken in large pot with water.
2. Add next 7 ingredients.
3. Bring to a boil, skimming surface if necessary.
4. Simmer for 1 hour, or until tender.
5. Mix dumpling ingredients together until just moistened.
6. Bring chicken to a slow boil.
7. Drop dumplings by tablespoons onto chicken.
8. Cover and cook 12 minutes.




Alaskan Salmon Chowder *

1/2   cup onions, chopped
1/2   cup celery, chopped
1/4   cup green peppers, chopped
1   clove garlic, minced
1 (14.5    ounces) can chicken broth, divided
2   cups peeled potatoes
1   cup carrot, sliced
1   teaspoon seasoning salt (optional)
1/2   teaspoon dill weed
1   small zucchini, thinly sliced
1 (14.75    ounces) can cream-style corn
1 (12    fluid ounces) can evaporated milk
2   cups cooked salmon or 2 (7.5 ounces) cans salmon, drained and bones removed

1. In a saucepan, cook onion, celery, green pepper and garlic in 1/4 cup broth
   until tender.
2. Add potatoes, carrots, seasoned salt if desired, dill and remaining broth.
3. Cover and simmer for 20 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
4. Add zucchini; simmer for 5 minutes.
5. Add corn, milk and salmon; heat through.

Notes: An excellent winter soup. I used fresh salmon, and highly recommend it
over the canned salmon. We will definitely be having this soup again.
Further note: The flavor of this soup is slightly subtle, and the creamed corn
and evaporated milk combine very well. I'd consider this a comfort food. The
presence of the zucchini adds some color to an otherwise mostly white soup.
Everybody we've offered this soup to has liked it so far.



VEAL CHOP WITH RADICCHIO, WHITE BEANS, AND ROSEMARY
Active time: 30 min Start to finish: 30 min
2 garlic cloves
3/8 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
1 (1/2-inch-thick) loin veal chop (7 oz)
5 oz radicchio, leaves torn into 2- to 3-inch pieces (3 cups)
1/3 cup canned small white beans, rinsed and drained
2 teaspoons red-wine vinegar
1/2 cup low-sodium chicken broth
1/2 teaspoon cornstarch

Mince 1 garlic clove and mash to a paste with 1/4 teaspoon salt, then
transfer to a shallow bowl. Stir in 1 tablespoon oil, 1/4 teaspoon rosemary,
and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Add veal and turn once or twice to coat.

Heat remaining tablespoon oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderate heat
until hot but not smoking, then cook veal, turning over once, until golden and
just cooked through, 6 to 7 minutes total. Transfer veal to a plate.

Finely chop remaining garlic clove and add to skillet, then cook over
moderate heat, stirring, until golden, about 30 seconds. Add radicchio and
beans and cook, stirring, until radicchio begins to wilt, about 2 minutes. Add
vinegar and cook until most of vinegar is evaporated. Whisk together broth and
cornstarch, then add to bean mixture and boil, scraping up brown bits, until
sauce is thickened slightly and about two thirds of liquid is evaporated,
about 4 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in remaining 1/4 teaspoon rosemary,
1/8 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Serve veal with radicchio and
beans.


Top Secret Recipes
version of
Starbucks
Carrot Cake

1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1 1/2 cups dark brown sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
3 eggs
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup shredded carrot (1 large carrot)
3/4 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup golden raisins

Frosting
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
1 tablespoon milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 cups powdered sugar

Optional Garnish
1/3 cup chopped pecans

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
2. Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg
and allspice in a large bowl.
3. Use an electric mixer to combine brown sugar and oil. Add the eggs and
vanilla and beat on high speed for about a minute.
4. Combine the wet mixture with the dry stuff. Mix on low speed until all
ingredients are incorporated then crank up the speed and blend on high until
batter is smooth.
5. Add shredded carrot, walnuts, and raisins and mix by hand. Pour the batter
into a 13x9-inch baking pan that has been generously greased with shortening.
6. Bake for 55 to 60 minutes or until a toothpick stuck in the center comes
out clean. Allow the cake to cool completely.
7. Make the frosting by mixing softened cream cheese, milk, and vanilla in a
large bowl with an electric mixer. Add the powdered sugar, one cup at a time,
and blend well until frosting is smooth.
8. When the cake has cooled, frost the top with the entire bowl of cream
cheese frosting. Sprinkle the pecans over the frosting. Slice into 12 pieces
to serve. Cover the leftover cake and store it in the fridge.


Grilled Scallops with Tomato-Mint Salsa

Grilled scallops and this refreshing salsa make a perfect light late-summer
supper. Serve with whole-wheat couscous; grilled pineapple slices.

Ingredients

1  -  large sun-ripened tomato, seeded and chopped
2  -  scallions, thinly sliced
2  tbsp.  chopped fresh mint
2  tbsp.  orange or pineapple juice
1  tbsp.  olive oil
8  oz.  sea scallops

Preparation - Estimated cooking time: under 30 minutes -
1 In a bowl, combine chopped tomato, scallions, mint, fruit juice and olive
oil. Add salt to taste. Drain excess liquid from salsa into a shallow dish.

2 Add scallops to salsa liquid in the dish. Add a generous grinding of black
pepper and toss to coat. Thread scallops onto skewers.

3 Heat a stovetop grill pan or prepare an outdoor grill. Grill scallops for 4
- 5 minutes, until just done. Serve with salsa on the side.


Applebee's Mudslide

2 cups vanilla ice cream
2 ounces Kahlua coffee liqueur
Hershey's chocolate syrup (in a squirt bottle)
canned whipped cream

1. Measure 2 cups of ice cream into your blender. Add the Kahlua and blend
until smooth.

2. Prepare a 16-ounce wine glass by swirling chocolate syrup around the
inside of the glass. Hold the wine glass by the stem with one hand and twirl
the wine glass as you squeeze the chocolate. Slowly move the chocolate up
toward the rim of the glass so that the chocolate makes a continuous spiral
around the inside of the glass.

3. Pour the drink from the blender into the glass. Add a pile of whipped
cream to the top of the drink and drizzle additional chocolate syrup over the
whipped cream. Add a straw and serve.




POACHED EGGS WITH ROASTED TOMATOES AND PORTABELLAS

Using the freshest eggs possible is the key to great poached eggs. This dish
makes a savory breakfast or, when paired with a salad, a satisfying brunch.
Active time: 20 min Start to finish: 20 min

4 (3-inch-wide) portabella mushroom caps, stems discarded
2 plum tomatoes, halved lengthwise
3 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
4 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon balsamic vinegar
4 thin slices Fontina cheese
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh chives

Preheat broiler.

Brush mushrooms and tomatoes with oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Arrange mushrooms, stemmed sides down, and tomato halves, cut sides up, on a
broiler pan.

Broil vegetables about 6 inches from heat, turning over mushrooms halfway
through cooking, until tender and tomatoes are slightly charred, about 7
minutes total. (Leave broiler on.)

While vegetables are broiling, fill a deep 10-inch skillet with 1 1/4 inches
cold water. Add white vinegar and bring to a simmer.

Break 1 egg into a cup, then slide egg into simmering water. Repeat with
remaining eggs, spacing them in skillet, and poach at a bare simmer until
whites are firm but yolks are still runny, 2 to 3 minutes.

Gently transfer eggs with a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain and season
with salt and pepper.

Sprinkle stemmed sides of mushrooms with balsamic vinegar, then put 1 tomato
half, cut side up, on each mushroom and top with an egg. Cover eggs with
cheese slices and broil until cheese is just melted, about 1 minute. Sprinkle
with chives and serve immediately.




Grilled Chicken Couscous Salad with Lemon-Yogurt Dressing

Ingredients

1  tablespoon  fresh lemon juice
0.5  teaspoon  salt
-  -  freshly ground black pepper
1  tablespoon  sugar
2  cups  plain, non-fat yogurt
1  tablespoon  olive oil
1  teaspoon  chopped fresh mint
4  -  boneless, skinless chicken breasts, about 4 to 6 ounces each
1  cup  cherry tomatoes, halved
1  medium  cucumber, peeled, halved lengthwise, seeded and sliced
0.5  cup  chopped scallions
1  cup  uncooked instant couscous
0.25  cup  halved, pitted black olives
0.5  cup  crumbled feta cheese
-  -  fresh mint sprigs, for garnish

Preparation - Estimated cooking time: 35 minutes -
For the dressing:
  In a small mixing bowl, whisk the lemon juice, salt, pepper and sugar
together. Whisk in the yogurt and olive oil. Stir in the mint. (The dressing
can be made in advance and stored in the refrigerator for several days.)

For the salad:
  In a resealable bag or shallow container, marinate the chicken breast in 1
cup of the dressing. Refrigerate for 15 minutes or overnight.
  In a large mixing bowl, combine the tomatoes, cucumbers, scallions and the
remaining dressing. Cover and refrigerate for 15 minutes or overnight.
  Preheat the grill to medium.
  Grill the chicken for about 6 minutes on each side, or until it is cooked
through. Transfer the chicken to a cutting board and when the chicken is cool
enough to handle, slice it into thin strips. Toss the chicken with the
vegetable mixture and refrigerate.
  Bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil. Stir in the couscous and a pinch of
salt, cover, remove from heat and let stand for 5 minutes. Fluff the couscous
with a fork and transfer it to a large serving bowl. Stir in the vegetables
and chicken and season with salt and pepper. (The salad can be made in advance
and stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. It can be served chilled or
at room temperature.)

Garnish the salad with olives, feta cheese and mint sprigs.




MOROCCAN CHICKEN WITH EGGPLANT, TOMATOES, AND ALMONDS


This version of a tagine, the classic Moroccan stew, calls for dark meat
because it stays moist when braised. If you prefer white meat, reduce the
cooking time by 15 minutes.

6 tablespoons olive oil, divided
3 cups sliced onions
6 large garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon Hungarian sweet paprika
1 1/2 teaspoons coarse kosher salt
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon fennel seeds, ground
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
2 cups drained canned diced tomatoes (from 28-ounce can)
1 cup water
3 tablespoons (or more) fresh lemon juice
8 chicken thighs with bones, skinned
8 chicken drumsticks, skinned

1 large eggplant, unpeeled, cut into 1-inch cubes

1 tablespoon chopped fresh marjoram
1/2 cup whole blanched almonds or slivered almonds, toasted
Chopped fresh cilantro

Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in heavy large wide pot over medium heat.

Add onions and garlic. Cover and cook until onions are soft, about 10
minutes. Add paprika, salt, turmeric, coriander, fennel, pepper, cumin, and
ginger; stir 1 minute. Add tomatoes, 1 cup water, and 3 tablespoons lemon
juice; bring to boil. Arrange all chicken in single layer in pot; spoon some
sauce over. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer 15
minutes. Turn chicken over, cover, and simmer until chicken is tender, about
20 minutes longer.

Meanwhile, preheat oven to 400°F. Brush large rimmed baking sheet with olive
oil. Place eggplant and remaining 4 tablespoons olive oil in large bowl; toss
to coat. Spread eggplant out on prepared baking sheet and bake until soft and
brown, stirring occasionally, about 25 minutes. (Chicken and eggplant can be
made 1 day ahead. Cool slightly. Refrigerate separately until cold, then cover
and keep refrigerated.)

Stir eggplant and marjoram into chicken. Simmer uncovered 10 minutes to heat
through and blend flavors. Season stew to taste with more lemon juice, if
desired, and salt and pepper. Transfer chicken to large shallow bowl. Sprinkle
with almonds and cilantro.




THAI SHRIMP CURRY

This dish bursts with flavor yet is so simple to prepare. Adjust the heat by
adding the curry paste to taste.

1 tablespoon peanut oil
1 cup thinly sliced onion
1 cup chopped green onions (about 8 small)
1 to 2 tablespoons Thai green curry paste*
1 14-ounce can unsweetened coconut milk*
1 cup low-salt chicken broth
3 tablespoons Thai fish sauce (nam pla)*
2 teaspoons sugar
1 cup diced plum tomatoes
2 pounds uncooked large shrimp, peeled, deveined
Chopped fresh cilantro
Lime wedges

Heat peanut oil in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat.
Add sliced onion; stir-fry until soft and beginning to brown, about 4
minutes. Reduce heat to medium.
Add green onions and curry paste; stir until fragrant, about 1 minute.
Add coconut milk, chicken broth, fish sauce, and sugar; bring to boil.
Add tomatoes and boil 2 minutes.
Add shrimp and cook just until opaque in center, stirring often, about 3
minutes.
Transfer curry to large shallow bowl. Garnish with cilantro.
Serve, passing lime wedges separately.




Mediterranean Beef Ragout

Gremolata: a garnish consisting of parsley, lemon, and garlic, is typically
served on osso bucco: a classic Italian veal stew. Here it dresses up a beef
stew.

1-1/2 pounds beef stew meat, trimmed and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 medium onions, cut into wedges
3 medium carrots, cut into 1/2-inch slices
1 14-1/2-ounce can diced tomatoes, undrained
1/2 cup beef broth
2 cloves garlic, minced
1-1/2 teaspoons dried thyme, crushed
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1 medium  zucchini, halved lengthwise and cut into 1/4-inch slices
6 ounces  fresh green beans, cut into 2-inch pieces (1-3/4 cups)
Hot cooked whole wheat couscous or brown rice (optional)
1 recipe  Gremolata (see recipe below)

1. In a large skillet brown meat, half at a time, in hot oil. Drain off fat.
Transfer meat to a 3-1/2- or 4-quart slow cooker. Add onions and carrots. In a
bowl stir together the undrained tomatoes, broth, garlic, thyme, salt, and
pepper. Pour over meat and vegetables.

2. Cover and cook on low-heat setting for 7 to 9 hours or on high-heat
setting for 3-1/2 to 4-1/2 hours.

3. If using low-heat setting, turn to high-heat setting. Stir in zucchini and
green beans. Cover and cook for 30 minutes more. If desired, serve over hot
couscous. Top each serving with Gremolata. Makes 6 servings.

4. Gremolata: Stir together 1/4 cup snipped fresh parsley, 1 tablespoon
finely shredded lemon peel, and 2 cloves garlic, minced.




Lemon Chicken Spaghetti Toss  #102351

I found this recipe in Quick Cooking a few years ago and it has become a
staple in our household. It is a very tasty dish that is so easy to make, yet
looks very impressive. Good enough for company!

5       green onions, chopped
2       cloves garlic, minced
2       tablespoons butter or margarine
2       tablespoons olive oil or vegetable oil
1 1/2   lbs boneless skinless chicken breasts, cubed
3       tablespoons lemon juice
3       tablespoons minced fresh parsley
1       teaspoon seasoning salt
1/2     teaspoon lemon-pepper seasoning
1 (7    ounces) package thin spaghetti

1. In a large skillet, saute onions & garlic in butter& oil until tender.
2. Stir in the chicken, lemon juice, parsley, seasoned salt & lemon-pepper.
3. Saute for 15-20 min or until chicken juices run clear.
4. Meanwhile, cook spaghetti according to package directions; drain.
5. Add to chicken mixture& toss.

Notes: Quite good - add a bit more lemonjuice for some extra zip. Also could
benefit from some yellow squash and/or broccoli tossed in after the chicken is
browned but still cooking.



Red Cabbage
3 tbsp. bacon fat (you can use veg. oil, but the bacon fat makes it yummy!
1 head red cabbage
1 apple, sliced
1/4 c. sugar
1/4 c. apple cider vinegar
1/2 tsp. salt
Bay Leaf
1 tbsp. flour
1 onion

Put bacon in bottom of large pot. Shred red cabbage and place on top. Simmer
on low heat for 1/2 hour. Add apple and onion slices along w/ sugar, vinegar,
salt, bay leaf, and 2-3 cups water. Mix 1 tbsp. flour w/ part of water. Add
and and stir well. Let simmer until cabbage is done.


Red Cabbage (II)

3/4 cup water
1 small head red cabbage, finely
shredded
3 apples - peeled, cored and chopped
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
1 cup distilled white vinegar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 tablespoons butter, divided

Place water in a large saucepan, and stir in cabbage, apples, brown sugar, vinegar, 
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and 1 tablespoon butter. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat, and cover. 
Simmer 45 minutes, stirring occasionally, until cabbage is tender. Stir in remaining butter 
before serving.

Notes: Really good! Simple too.



Simple Moroccan Chicken  #98989

Easy Moroccan Chicken that is nice served with couscous, yoghurt and bread.

1 pound chicken, cubed
3 tablespoons flour
salt and pepper
1/4 cup olive oil
2 onions, sliced
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 teaspoons sumac
1/4 cup golden raisins
1 1/8 cups chicken stock
1 7/8 ounces pine nuts
1/4 cup fresh coriander, chopped
1 lemon, juice of

1. Season flour with salt and pepper and toss chicken.
2. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in skillet over high heat until hot then cook
chicken in batches until golden, set aside.
3. Heat remaining oil in pan and add onions, reduce heat to medium and cook
for 10 minutes, stirring, until golden and softened.
4. Return chicken to pan with spices, sultanas and stock.
5. Reduce heat to low and cook for 5 minutes until heated through and
thickened slightly.
6. Stir in pine nuts, coriander and lemon juice.
7. Serve with lemon wedges on side.



Mediterranean Chickpea Hummus  #89524
(canned chickpeas)

The ultimate Hummus dip no one can resist! There won't be anything left in
the bowl by the end of the evening.

4-5 cloves garlic
1   can chickpeas
1/4 cup tahini paste (sesame paste)
3-4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
3-4 tablespoons lemons, juice of (start with 3tbs first, if you like
    it a little more tart, add another spoon)
3/4 teaspoon salt
1   tablespoon ground cumin
3   teaspoons ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper (or less to suit taste buds)
1/4 cup water

1. Blend garlic first.
2. Add chickpeas, pulse for a few times at first, then puree, adding tahini
paste through the feeder.
3. Add in olive oil and lemon juice.
4. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then add salt, cumin, coriander,
cayenne, lemon juice and water.
5. Blend to a smooth paste.
6. Transfer to a bowl, and garnish with some chopped parsley and cilantro
leaves.


Alton Brown's Hummus
(dried chickpeas)

1 pound Slow Cooker Chickpeas, cooled, recipe follows
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
5 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/4 cup water
1/3 cup tahini, stirred well
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus extra for serving
Powdered sumac, optional

Slow Cooker Chickpeas:
7 cups water
1 pound dry chickpeas, sorted and rinsed
1/4 teaspoon baking soda

Place the water, chickpeas, and baking soda in a 2 1/2-quart slow cooker. Cover and cook on high heat 
for 4 hours, or on low heat for 8 to 9 hours, or until tender. 
Drain and serve immediately, or use in desired dish.

Place the chickpeas, garlic, and kosher salt in the bowl of a food processor. Process for 15 to 20 seconds. 
Stop, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and process for another 15 to 20 seconds. Add the lemon juice and water. 
Process for 20 seconds. Add the tahini. Process for 20 seconds, then scrape down the sides of the bowl. 
With the processor running, drizzle in the olive oil.

To serve, transfer the hummus to a bowl and drizzle with additional olive oil and sprinkle with sumac, to taste, if desired.



Moroccan Mushroom Couscous  #86590

Great as a side or a meal in itself.

1/4 cup olive oil
1 lb fresh mushrooms, sliced
1 small onions, thinly sliced
1 clove garlic
1 teaspoon cumin
1 teaspoon coriander seeds, crushed
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon turmeric
1/4 teaspoon saffron threads
1 1/2 cups orange juice
1 teaspoon lemons, zest of or orange zest
1 cup uncooked couscous
1/4 cup raisins
salt & pepper

1. Heat 2 tablespoon oil add mushrooms seasoned with salt and pepper saute
till tender.

2. Remove from pan and add 2 tablespoons oil, onions, garlic and spices cook
for an other 5 minutes.

3. Add orange juice and zest simmering till reduced to 1 cup.

4. In a medium bowl Add 1 cup hot water to couscous and raisins season with
salt and pepper remove let stand for 10 minutes.

5. For presentation plate the couscous on a large platter top with mushrooms
and pour sauce on top. Just before serving toss together.



Baked Ham and Cheese Omelet Roll  #28648

This is an easy way to serve omelets. In our house, it takes me forever to
make breakfast on the stove top! Baking this is soooo much easier. Feel free
to add or subtract to suit your tastes (bacon, sausage, onions, peppers, etc.)

6       eggs
1       cup milk
1/2     cup all-purpose flour
1/2     teaspoon salt
1/4     teaspoon black pepper
1       cup cooked ham, chopped or 9 slices of any deli ham
1       cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese

1. Preheat oven to 450 degrees.
2. Beat eggs and milk until fluffy.
3. Add flour, salt and pepper and beat or whisk until smooth.
4. Pour into a buttered or greased 9 x 13 baking dish or pan.
5. Bake for about 15 minutes or until eggs are just about set.
6. Sprinkle with chopped ham or lay slices of ham evenly on top.
7. Sprinkle with cheese.
8. Bake for about 5 minutes more or until cheese is melted.
9. Starting at short side, roll up omelet while still in pan.
10. Place seam side down on serving dish.
11. Cut into slices.


Carribean Jerk Chicken

    1 tb Ground allspice
    1 tb Dried thyme
    1 1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1 1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1 1/2 ts Ground sage
    3/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    3/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    2 tb Salt
    2 tb Garlic powder
    1 tb Sugar
    1/4 c Olive oil
    1/4 c Soy sauce
    3/4 c White vinegar
    1/2 c Orange juice
    Juice of 1 lime
    1 Scotch bonnet pepper, Seeded and finely chopped (I used a habanero pepper instead)
    1 c Chopped white onion
    3 Green onions, finely chopped
    4 Chicken breasts (I used 8 bone in thighs instead)






Guinness Burgers  #22210

1 1/4   lbs ground beef
1       dash pepper
1/2     teaspoon Tabasco sauce
1       clove garlic, crushed
1/4     cup chili sauce
1/2     ounce Knorr french onion soup mix
1/2     cup Guinness stout (or other stout)
4       hamburger buns

1. Preheat oven to 400F degrees.

2. Combine meat, pepper, Tabasco sauce, garlic, chili sauce, dry onion soup
mix, and 1½ ozs Guinness.
3. Shape into 4 patties.
4. Bake at 400F until brown, about 10 minutes.
5. Baste with the remaining Guinness.
6. Continue baking for an additional 10-15 minutes, until well done.
7. Add your favourite burger garnishes and trimmings.


Olive Gardens Zuppa Tuscana  #9782

I used Italian turkey sausage, and turkey bacon. I also added 1/2 tsp hot
pepper flakes.

1 1/2   cups spicy sausage
2       medium potatoes, cut in half lengthwise and cut into 1/4 inch slices
3/4     cup onions, diced
6       slices bacon
1 1/2   teaspoons minced garlic
2       cups kale leaves, cut in half,then sliced
2       tablespoons chicken base
1       quart water
1/3     cup heavy cream

1. If sausage is in links, take out of wrapper.
2. Cook ground sausage, until done. Cook bacon and onion over medium heat,
   when bacon is crisp, take it out of the pan and leave the onion.
3. Add garlic to the onion, and cook 1 minute.
4. Add chicken base, water, and potatoes; simmer 15 minutes.
5. Crumble bacon.
6. Add crumbled bacon, sausage, kale and cream.
7. Simmer 4 minutes, then serve.



Chicken Pesto  #21882

This was my daughter's favorite dish (along with some of her friends). She
enjoyed it so much that we had to make it a weekly recipe.

1 package pesto sauce mix
8 boneless skinless chicken breasts
breadcrumbs
4 slices provolone cheese, cut in half
1 (4 ounces) can sliced mushrooms

1. Prepare pesto sauce according to package direction.
2. Heat oven to 350 degrees.
3. Spray rectangular dish (9 by 12 inch) with no-stick spray.
4. Moisten chicken with water, shake off excess, and coat complete with bread
crumbs.
5. Place chicken in baking dish.
6. Spread pesto sauce evenly over chicken breasts.
7. Cover each breast with ½ slice of provolone cheese.
8. Spread mushrooms over cheese.
9. Bake in oven for 45- 50 minutes.
10. Serve with pasta.




Moroccan Slow Cooker Stew *

1 serving cooking spray (5 one-second sprays per serving)
1 small onion(s), chopped
1 medium garlic clove(s), minced
1 medium butternut squash, peeled, seeded and cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 cup carrot(s), baby
1 cup canned crushed tomatoes
1/2 cup vegetable broth
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp red pepper flakes
15 oz canned chickpeas, drained and rinsed
1/2 tsp table salt

1. Coat a small skillet with cooking spray. Add onion and garlic; sauté for 5
minutes.

2. Place squash in a 3-quart or larger slow cooker (crockpot). Add sauteed
onion and garlic, carrots, tomatoes, broth, cinnamon, cumin and red pepper
flakes. Cover and turn on to low heat; simmer for 6 hours.

3. Add chickpeas and salt. Stir, cover and heat for an additional 5 minutes.
Yields about 1 1/3 cups per serving.

Notes: An excellent vegetarian dish. With some bread and a salad this is a 
great autumn or winter meal.



Seafood Newburg  #2857

Here is a Seafood Newburg recipe that I make for parties-you can just use
extra lobster instead of the mixed seafood. Seafood Newburg

1       lb shrimp, cleaned, left whole (use small to med. shrimp)
1       lb bay scallops, thoroughly cleaned
1       lb crabmeat
1       lb lobsters, cut into bite size pieces

Sauce:
1       small white onions, finely chopped
1/2     cup unsalted butter (do not use margarine)
1/2     cup flour
2       cups light cream
1       can cream of shrimp soup, undiluted
1       tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
1/4     cup dry sherry, or more to taste
1       tablespoon fresh lemon juice
        salt
        white pepper
1       dash nutmeg
1       dash paprika

1. Poach the seafood in water and white wine being careful not to overcook.
   Remove from pan and drain. Reserve a little for garnish
2. Make sauce: Saute onions in butter making sure not to brown them-gradually
   add flour stirring well after each addition.
3. Add the cream and soup. Cook until thick and creamy stirring continuously.
4. Add Worcestershire sauce, sherry, lemon juice, salt, white pepper, nutmeg
   and paprika.
5. Keep stirring.
6. Add all seafood except the crab meat and carefully blend into the sauce-
   gently stir in the crab.Serve over rice, noodles or puff pastry shells.
7. Garnish with some cooked shrimp or lobster pieces.
8. Sprinkle a little fresh chopped parsley over.
9. This serves about 12 for appetizers or 6 for entree..



Sauce for Polynesian Glazed Wings
1/2 cup     	packed brown sugar
1 Tblsp      	cornstarch
2 tsp       	grated fresh ginger
1/4 - 1/2 tsp 	crushed red pepper
1/2 cup     	pineapple juice
1/2 cup     	reduced-sodium chicken broth or water
1/4 cup     	finely chopped green sweet pepper
2 tablespoons   soy sauce
Thinly sliced green onions (optional)

In a small saucepan combine brown sugar, cornstarch, ginger, and crushed red
pepper. Stir in pineapple juice, broth, sweet pepper, and soy sauce. Cook and
stir over medium heat until thickened and bubbly; cook and stir 2 minutes
more. Set aside.



Top Secret Recipes Boston Market Butternut Squash

Here's a great way to make butternut squash, that's easy and quick. Most of
your time will be spent cutting the squash into 1-inch cubes. After that, it's
just a simple matter of steaming the squash, then getting in there to mash it
up. Mix in the other ingredients and you've got a great side that fits right
in with many meals, especially spicy dishes.

1 medium butternut squash
2 tablespoons butter, melted
2 tablespoons light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper

1. Cut squash into quarters. Remove the seeds and slice off the skin, then
chop the squash into 1-inch cubes. Put squash in a steamer rack in a large
saucepan over boiling water and cover. Steam for 30 minutes or until the
squash is tender.

2. When squash has cooked, use a potato masher to mash squash until smooth in
a large bowl. Add remaining ingredients and continue mashing until everything
is mixed in. Let the squash sit for at least 10 minutes so that the flavors
can develop. Reheat in the microwave for a minute or so before serving.

Notes: Very good! This makes for a sweet side dish, which will go well with
a spicy main dish, or something that simply complements the natural sweetness
of the squash (poultry maybe).



Asian Eggdrop Soup  #22163 (transcribed)

4 cups chicken broth
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon cornstarch, mixed with 2 t water
2 eggs, lightly beaten
2 green onions, chopped (the whole onion)
salt and pepper

1. Bring broth and soy sauce to a boil.
2. Slowly add cornstarch mix, stirring until thickened.
3. Reduce to a simmer.
4. Add eggs slowly, while stirring the soup in the same direction.
5. The egg will spread and feather.
6. Turn off heat and add the onions.
7. Add salt and pepper.
8. Serve at once.

Notes: Excellent and very easy to make. You could probably use 5 cups of broth
without noticing the difference. One time when I made this soup we only had
one small can of chicken broth, so I rounded out the difference with vegetable
broth. The flavor was slightly different, but the soup was still just as good.
Further note: I continue to make this soup - every time I do Kate and I both
remark on how good it is. It's simple and it comes together very quickly.
It's a great comfort soup for cooler days, and we usually have the ingredients
on hand.
I don't really even measure anymore. Some broth, a few dashes of soy sauce,
a couple of eggs. Very easy.


Waldorf Salad

A crunchy, sweet and hearty salad of apples, celery, nuts and mayonnaise.
This salad can easily become a summer luncheon main dish by adding cooked,
diced chicken. You will probably need to add a little more mayonnaise. Another
nice variation is halved grapes in addition to the apples, or pears as a
replacement for the apples.

4       medium apples, washed and diced
1/2     teaspoon brown sugar
1       tablespoon lemon juice
1       cup celery, chopped
1/2     cup pecans or walnuts
2/3     cup mayonnaise

1. Wash, core and dice unpeeled apples.
2. Sprinkle lemon juice over them and toss together gently to coat, then
   sprinkle brown sugar over the apples and toss again.
3. Chill for at least 20 minutes.
4. Add celery and nuts then stir in mayonnaise, adding only enough for
   desired consistency.
5. Serve on a bed of greens.

Notes: Yep, it's Waldorf salad. :) I liked the little bit of extra sweetness
the brown sugar added. I hadn't heard of that before - it's a good addition.
Skip measuring out the mayo - just add enough to barely cover the apples and
celery (unless you're a mayonnaise lover, in which case you should probably
make your own bowl of waldorf salad). As with other mayo-covered salads, start
with way too little mayo and then add tiny amounts more as you mix - it's easy
to suddenly overwhelm the other food.


Eggplant Curry with Toasted Almonds

1 1/2 cups jasmine rice, cooked to directions on package
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 large, firm eggplant, cut into 1-inch cubes
1 large, yellow skinned onion, peeled and chopped
1 large red bell pepper, seeded and diced
4 cloves garlic, cracked
1 (14-ounce) can diced tomatoes, drained
1/4 cup (a couple of heaping tablespoons) mango chutney
1 rounded tablespoon mild curry paste or 2 tablespoons curry powder
Coarse salt
1 cup vegetable broth or stock
A handful (about 2 tablespoons) cilantro leaves, finely chopped, optional

Garnishes:
Toasted sliced or slivered almonds
Thinly sliced scallions or chopped fresh chives

Prepare rice. While rice is simmering, start curry.

Heat a deep, heavy bottomed nonstick skillet over medium to medium high heat.
When the pan is hot, add oil, eggplant, onion, and bell pepper. Cover pan and
cook 6 to 8 minutes, stirring occasionally. Uncover and add garlic; cook 1
minute more. Add tomatoes, chutney, curry, salt, and broth. Stir to combine
and simmer for 1 to 2 minutes over low heat for flavors to combine. Remove
curry from heat and stir in cilantro. Ladle eggplant curry into shallow bowls.
Using an ice cream scoop, scoop rice balls into the center of bowls. Garnish
your the and rice with lots of toasted sliced almonds and scallions or chives.
Tidbits: Curry paste is available on the International Foods aisle of markets.
The paste is deep red in color and will keep several months in the
refrigerator.

Notes: This is quite good, but I'm going to need to tinker with it before I'm
going to be happy with the recipe.

  First, I'd make sure I cooked the eggplant and vegetable mixture for the
  full 8 minutes before adding the garlic.

  Secondly, I'd probably simmer after I've added the broth and tomatoes for
  more like 3-5 minutes, or until the eggplant is completely done. Maybe I
  just like my eggplant more well-done than some people, but I found that any
  eggplant pieces that hadn't been cooked during the first step didn't finish
  cooking during the simmering.

  Next, I made the mistake of using red curry paste. This made the entire pan
  of curry a majorly hot and spicy affair; too hot for Kate to eat at all. I
  added some curry powder to bring it back to the Indian side of things (the
  red curry paste being a Thai cooking ingredient), and added some plain
  yogurt, but it was still too hot for Kate. So, next time either use yellow
  curry paste, or just use good old curry powder. (Or add *very small* amounts
  of red curry paste successively, keeping in mind that it is very easy to
  flame out the entire dish.)

  The sliced almonds are ok as a topper; I think green onions (didn't get time
  to slice any) would have been better.






Spicy Hummus

1 (14.5 ounce) can chickpeas (garbanzo beans), drained
2 rounded tablespoons tahini sesame paste
A drizzle extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 teaspoon crushed pepper flakes
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) ground cumin
1 teaspoon (1/3 palmful) ground coriander
1 clove garlic, crushed
Coarse salt
1/2 lemon, juiced
Pita breads, grilled and cut into wedges for dipping

Combine beans, tahini, oil, pepper flakes, cumin, coriander, garlic, salt,
and lemon juice in food processor bowl and grind into a smooth paste. Transfer
to a small dip dish and surround spread with warm pita wedges. This recipe
makes a great appetizer, or anytime snack.

Tidbit: this is a fantastic dish to take to a pot luck or block party -- it's
always a hit!

Notes: Yum! The hummus ends up being pretty thick, so you'll either add way
more than a drizzle of olive oil, or a bit more lemon juice. The tahini we
used was pretty thick; maybe that contributed. Anyway, the thickness of the
hummus didn't do anything bad to the flavor, which was top-notch.



Creamy Corn

4 ears corn on the cob or 2 boxes frozen corn kernels, 10 ounces each
2 tablespoons butter
1 rib celery and greens, chopped
1/2 small red bell pepper, chopped
2 scallions, chopped
2 tablespoons fresh thyme leaves
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup half-and-half

Scrape corn from cobs.
Heat a medium skillet over medium heat. Add butter and chopped vegetables and
lightly saute for 3 minutes, then add corn and season with thyme, salt and
pepper. Cook 5 minutes, then add half-and-half. Cover and cook over medium low
heat 10 minutes. Uncover and stir, then adjust seasonings.



5 Minute Bread Pudding

1 loaf store bought frosted or unfrosted cinnamon raisin bread, unsliced
1/2 stick butter, softened
1 can sweetened condensed or reduced fat sweetened condensed milk
2 jiggers brandy
Whipped cream in spray top canister from your dairy aisle
Ground or grated nutmeg, for garnish

Heat a griddle pan over medium heat. Cut 4 thick slices of cinnamon raisin
bread. Butter both sides of the bread slices with softened butter. Grill bread
until brown and crispy on both sides, 2 minutes on each side.

While bread grills, in a small saucepot, heat sweetened condensed milk or
reduced fat sweetened condensed milk over medium low heat for 4 minutes.
Remove from heat and stir in brandy.

Cut each grilled slice of bread into quarters and pile into 4 dessert cups.
Top bread with a few spoonfuls of hard sauce of sweetened condensed milk and
brandy and a generous swirl of whipped cream. Garnish cream with a sprinkle of
nutmeg and serve.



Shrimp Curry

1 large onion, quartered
1 (2-inch-long) piece fresh ginger, peeled
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 teaspoons curry powder (preferably Madras)
1 to 2 fresh serrano chiles, halved lengthwise
1 cup water
1 (14-oz) can unsweetened coconut milk (not low fat)
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
1 lb large shrimp in shell (21 to 25 per lb)

Accompaniment: cooked basmati rice
Garnish: lime wedges

Pulse onion and ginger in a food processor until finely chopped. Cook onion
mixture with salt and sugar in oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderate
heat, stirring frequently, until onion begins to brown, about 5 minutes. Stir
in curry powder and chiles and cook, stirring frequently, 2 minutes. Stir in
water, coconut milk, and lime juice and simmer, stirring occasionally, until
thickened, 5 to 8 minutes.

While sauce simmers, peel shrimp (devein if desired) and season with salt and
pepper. Add shrimp to sauce and simmer, stirring occasionally, until shrimp
are just cooked through, about 3 minutes. Add salt to taste and serve
immediately.


Coq au Vin

chicken pieces (8 or 10 thighs work well)
2 T. oil
1 T. chopped onion
1 T. flour
1 cup red wine
1 cup chicken broth
1 clove garlic, minced
1 bay leaf
1/4 tsp. ground thyme
2 or 3 onions, quartered OR 12 small white onions
1 cup sliced mushrooms

In a large, heavy skillet, cook chicken and chopped
onion in heated oil until chicken is browned on both
sides.  Remove chicken from pot.  Add flour to oil and
stir.  Add liquids, garlic, bay leaf, and thyme; stir;
bring to a boil; add chicken and onions.  Bring to a
boil again and simmer for about 45 minutes.  Toss in
the mushrooms at the end.  Voila!  Bon appetit!

Notes: An excellent rustic dish that tastes good year-round.


Hot and Sour Soup

6       cups chicken stock
1/4     lb julienned lean pork or chickens
1/2     tsp. garlic and red chile paste
2       tablespoons soy sauce
1/2     teaspoon ground white pepper
4       eggs, beaten
3       tablespoons cornstarch
1       cup sliced shittake mushrooms
1       can peeled straw mushrooms
1       can sliced bamboo shoots
1       can sliced water chestnuts
1/2     lb soft tofu, sliced into 1/4 inch cubes
1/4     cup white vinegar
        finely chopped scallions (to garnish)

1. Bring stock to a simmer, add soy sauce, pork, mushrooms& chile paste,
   simmer for 10 minutes.
2. Add meat, pepper, vinegar, bamboo, baby corn, water chestnuts, fungus and
   tofu, simmer 10 min Mix cornstarch with 5 tbsp water and add.
3. bring back to a simmer and pour the eggs in a very thin stream over the
   surface.
4. Serve with a garnish of chopped scallions.

Notes: Don't overload the soup with extra ingredients or the egg threads won't
form properly.
 



CARDAMOM APPLE ALMOND CAKE

Because the cornstarch in confectioners sugar isn't kosher for Passover, we
powdered granulated sugar in an electric coffee/spice grinder and mixed it
with potato starch for a similar effect.

For cake
Vegetable oil for greasing pan
1/2 cup matzo meal (not cake meal), plus additional for dusting
1 cup slivered almonds (4 1/2 oz), toasted and cooled
1/2 teaspoon salt
Scant 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
5 large eggs, separated, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 cup granulated sugar
2 Granny Smith apples, peeled and coarsely grated
Powdered Sugar

Special equipment: a 9- to 9 1/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan; an electric
coffee/spice grinder

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350°F. Oil springform
pan and dust with matzo meal, knocking out excess.

Pulse almonds in a food processor with 1/2 cup matzo meal, 1/4 teaspoon salt,
and cardamom until finely ground. (Be careful not to pulse to a paste.)

Beat yolks in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until
smooth, then add 3/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating, and beat
until mixture is very thick and pale, 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in nut mixture,
then apples. Beat whites and remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt in another bowl with
cleaned beaters at medium speed until they hold soft peaks. Add remaining 1/4
cup sugar, a little at a time, beating, and beat until whites just hold stiff
peaks. Stir one fourth of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in
remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Scrape batter into pan and rap pan
once on work surface to eliminate any large air bubbles.

Bake cake until puffed, browned, and top springs back when touched, 40 to 45
minutes. Transfer to a rack and cool completely in pan (cake will sink
slightly in center). Run a knife around edge of cake to loosen, then remove
side of pan.

Sift some powdered sugar over cake before serving.



Pesto  #13044 *

All purpose pesto sauce

4 	tablespoons pine nuts
2 	cloves garlic
1/2 	teaspoon salt
2 	cups fresh basil
5 	tablespoons grated parmesan cheese
1/2 	cup olive oil

1. Lightly toast pine nuts.
2. In a food processor (or with a pestle and mortar), mix the basil, garlic,
   pine nuts and cheese into a paste.
3. Add oil and blend to a smooth paste.
4. Keep in an airtight jar in the fridge.



Bahama Mamma  #37208 *

This is a coctail that we tried in the Bahamas but be careful because it
tastes so fruity that you forget how much you've had to drink!!!

1 	ounce jamaican white rum
1 	ounce bacardi rum
1 	ounce coconut rum
1 	ounce nassau royale (optional)
4 	ounces pineapple juice
2 	ounces lemon juice
1/2 ounce grenadine

1. Mix all ingredients and shake well.
2. Into a highball glass, pour over ice.
3. Serve with a slice of orange, pineapple and/or cherry.

Notes: I believe that the bacardi rum should be dark rum, and we could
probably substitute any orange liquor for the nassau royale.
Don't drink one of these if you have to drive in the next hour. They are
quite potent. We had the best luck using triple sec as a substitute for the
nassau royale



Greek Salad

3 vine ripe tomatoes, cut into chunks
1 red onion, thinly sliced
1/2 European seedless cucumber, cut into bite-size chunks
1 small red bell pepper, seeded and chunked
1 small green bell pepper, seeded and chunked
1 cubanelle pepper, seeded and chunked (fresh banana pepper)
1 cup Kalamata black olives
Several sprigs fresh flat-leaf parsley, about 1/2 cup
2 (1/4 pound) slices imported Greek feta
1/4 cup (a couple of glugs) extra-virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons (3 splashes) red wine vinegar
1 teaspoon dried oregano, crushed in palm of your hand
Coarse salt and black pepper
Pita breads

Combine vegetables, olives, and parsley in a large bowl. Rest sliced feta on
the top of salad. Combine oil, vinegar, and oregano in a small plastic
container with a lid. Shake vigorously to combine oil and vinegar and pour
over salad and cheese. Season with salt and pepper and let the salad marinate
until ready to serve. Serve salad with pita bread blistered and warmed on a
hot griddle or grill pan.



Greek Meatballs in Wine Sauce

3/4 pound ground lamb
3/4 pound ground beef or ground veal
1 small yellow skinned onion, minced or grated with hand grater
A handful flat-leaf parsley, chopped
Salt and pepper
1 tablespoon butter
1 tablespoon (1 turn of the pan) extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup dry white wine
1/2 lemon

Preheat a medium skillet over medium high heat.

Combine meats, onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Add butter and oil to pan
and begin rolling small, bite-size balls, adding balls to pan as you roll
them. Cook balls 10 to 12 minutes, shaking pan occasionally to brown equally
on all sides. Deglaze pan with wine and allow wine to reduce by half, 1 or 2
minutes. Remove pan from heat and squeeze the juice of 1/2 lemon over the
meatballs.



Baked Gigantes Beans

2 cans butter beans, drained
1 cup canned tomato sauce
A handful chopped flat leaf parsley
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzling
Salt and pepper

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.

In a small oven safe dish or casserole, combine beans with tomato sauce,
parsley, and oregano, crushing the oregano in your palm before you sprinkle it
into the beans. Drizzle beans with a touch of extra-virgin oil and season with
salt and pepper, to taste. Combine ingredients with a final toss.

Place in oven and bake 12 minutes or until sauce is bubbling and beans are
heated through.



Peasant Pasta

1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil, 1 turn of the pan
1/2 pound hot Italian sausage
1 pound sweet Italian sausage
3 to 4 cloves garlic, chopped, optional
1/2 cup chicken or vegetable broth
1 (28-ounce) can crushed tomatoes
1/2 cup heavy cream
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 cup frozen green peas
24 leaves fresh basil, torn or thinly sliced
1 pound penne rigate pasta, cooked to al dente
Grated Italian cheese, for passing

Heat a large, deep skillet over medium high heat. Add extra-virgin olive oil,
1 turn of the pan. Add sausage meat. Crumble sausage meat as it browns. Add
chopped garlic to the pan. When all of the crumbles have browned evenly,
deglaze the pan drippings using chicken or vegetable broth. Stir in crushed
tomatoes and bring the sauce up to a bubble, then reduce the heat to a simmer.
Stir cream into your sauce, this will blush the color and cut the acidity of
the tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir peas and basil into your sauce
to combine. Toss hot drained penne rigate in pan with the sauce, then transfer
pasta to serving bowl.



French Forest Spread and Pate Platter with Sliced Baguette

1/2 pound cremini mushrooms, coarsely chopped
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon butter
1 large shallot, finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon ground thyme
Salt and pepper
1/2 cup dry Sherry
1 loaf baguette, sliced at bread counter of market
8 ounces pate, available in specialty foods case of market,
  choose country or mousse-style, any flavor, ask for tastings, to choose
Cornichons, for garnish
Capers, for garnish
Chopped fresh parsley, for garnish

Heat a skillet over moderate heat. Finely chop mushrooms in a food processor.
Add the oil and butter to the skillet, then add the shallots and mushroom
bits. Season mushroom with ground thyme, salt, and pepper.

Saute shallots and chopped mushrooms until mushrooms are deep brown and
tender, about 6 minutes. Deglaze pan with Sherry. Transfer mushroom spread to
a small bowl or other serving dish. Place mushroom dish on a platter alongside
the store bought pate.

Garnish tray with sliced baguette, cornichons, capers, and a sprinkle of
chopped parsley. Enjoy bread rounds with a slather of pate topped with
mushrooms.



CARROT PACHADI

1 1/2 cups plain whole-milk yogurt
1 lb carrots
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 teaspoon black mustard seeds
8 fresh curry leaves
1 cup finely chopped red onion
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro

Special equipment: a food processor fitted with shredding disk

Drain yogurt in a large fine-mesh sieve set over a bowl about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely shred carrots using food processor.

Heat oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderately high heat until hot but
not smoking, then add mustard seeds and cook, covered, until they make popping
sounds, about 15 seconds. Add curry leaves and cook, stirring constantly,
until fragrant, about 3 seconds. Add carrots, onion, cumin, salt, and cayenne
and cook over moderate heat, stirring frequently, until carrots are
crisp-tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a shallow bowl and cool about 30
minutes. Stir in yogurt and cilantro.

Cooks' note:
Pachadi, without cilantro, can be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.





Banana Peppers Stuffed with Saurkraut  #66905

The peppers, saurkraut and sugar combine to make a spicy/sour/sweet mixture.
We eat these like pickles or with meals. I also give them as Christmas gifts.
This is an old recipe given to me by my ex-grandmother-in-law.

3 cups vinegar
2 cups water
2 lbs sugar
3 quarts banana peppers (hot or sweet)
1 bag sauerkraut

Makes 3 Quarts
1 hour 30 mins prep

1. Mix vinegar, water and sugar.
2. Boil 15 minutes.
3. Cut off stem end of peppers and seed (wear rubber gloves).
4. Stuff peppers with saurkraut and put into pint or quart jars very tightly.
5. Pour brine overtop.
6. Seal jars.

May need as little as 1 cup of sugar to avoid excessive sweetness




Stuffed Banana Peppers  #20849

In response to a request. Hope you like stuffed peppers....they are yummy

8 	banana peppers
2 	tablespoons butter
1/2 	cup onions, chopped
1/2 	cup celery, chopped
1 (28 	ounces) can crushed tomatoes
1 (8 	ounces) can tomato sauce
2 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	teaspoon dried basil
1 	teaspoon dried oregano
2 1/2 	teaspoons salt, divided
1/2 	teaspoon ground black pepper, divided
1 	egg
1 	teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1/2 	cup grated parmesan cheese
1 	lb hot Italian sausage
1 	lb mild Italian sausage
1 1/2 	cups breadcrumbs

8 servings

1. Cut off tops of peppers, and remove stuff inside& seeds.
2. Chop edible portions of tops; set aside.
3. Bring a pot of salted water to a boil.
4. Add peppers, reduce heat, and simmer until tender but still firm, about 5
   minutes.
5. Drain and set aside.
6. Heat butter in a medium skillet.
7. Saute reserved chopped pepper, onion and celery until tender, 3 to 5
   minutes.
8. Stir in crushed tomatoes, tomato sauce and garlic.
9. Season with basil, oregano, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.
10. Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes.
11. Preheat oven to 350F In a large mixing bowl, combine egg, 1 teaspoon
    salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper, Worcestershire sauce and Parmesan.
12. Mix in hot sausage, mild sausage, bread crumbs and 1 cup of the tomato
    sauce mixture.
13. Using a piping bag or spoon, fill each pepper with the meat mixture.
14. Place in a 3 quart casserole dish, and pour remaining tomato sauce
    mixture over peppers.
15. Bake uncovered in preheated oven for 1 hour.

Notes: Ok, banana peppers are just a pain in the ass to stuff; there's no
getting around that. You would do well to only use your widest banana peppers
for this, so it would be easier to stuff them. The problem is, most banana
peppers have a flat section where the opposing walls of the pepper nearly
touch - this makes it difficult to avoid splitting the blanched peppers. Plus,
they don't hold a lot of stuffing, so you're going to be using a good number.
I'm not saying you should avoid stuffing banana peppers entirely, but I think
the path to sanity with this recipe is to use more than one kind of pepper
for stuffing. A few bell peppers, a few banana peppers, maybe a few other
kinds; that will keep you from doing too much work (otherwise everybody will
need about 4 stuffed peppers each!).


Sweet Pickled Banana Peppers  #17254 *

I love these peppers on hot dogs, hamburgers or what ever. They are so easy
to make. You can double the recipe with no problem. I have never water bathed
these pickles the jars have always sealed securely and I have used them a year
or so later, Just be sure that the top has sealed and you have heard it POP.
If the jar does not seal fully store in the fridge and use within a couple of
months. As you can see from the picture I often mix hot Jalapeno, Anaheim,
Banana and any other peppers on hand - the result is medium hot pickled
peppers.

1/2 	lb banana peppers, seeded and slicded across,so you have rings
Pickling Juice
2 	cups white vinegar
2/3 	cup white sugar
1/2 	teaspoon mustard seeds
1/2 	teaspoon celery seeds
2 1/2 pint jars Change size or US/metric

35 minutes 25 mins prep

1. Sterilize 2- 1/2 pint jars.
2. Bring the vinegar, sugar, mustard seed and celery seed to a rolling boil.
3. Place peppers in the 1/2 pint jars.
4. Pour on the pickling juice.
5. Bring brine to within 1/2" of the top.
6. Be sure the edge of the jar has no juice on it.
7. Seal jar and leave for 2 weeks.

Notes: These are really good! You could probably cut down on the sugar just a
little bit, but you don't want the pickles to be too tart. So far I think
everybody who has tried these has liked them.



Dressed Up Italian Green Beans  #31349

Green beans were never a favorite vegtable of mine, until I tasted this
version of them. Try to use fresh green beans, but frozen will work in a
pinch. This is wonderful with asparagus also!

2 1/2 	lbs fresh green beans
3 	cups water
1 	cup sliced fresh mushrooms
1/3 	cup chopped onions
1 (8 	ounces) can sliced water chestnuts, drained
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon pepper
1/2 	teaspoon basil
1 	teaspoon dried Italian seasoning
1/3 	cup olive oil
1/4 	cup grated parmesan cheese

6-8 servings
25 minutes 10 mins prep

1. Wash beans, trim ends and remove strings.
2. Combine beans and water in a dutch oven.
3. Bring to a boil.
4. cover, reduce heat and simmer 6 to 8 munutes until crisp-tender.
5. drain.
6. Plunge into ice water to stop the cooking process.
7. Drain beans and set aside.
8. Saute mushrooms and next 7 ingredients in oil in a Dutch oven.
9. Stir in beans and cook until thoroughly heated.
10. sprinkle with Parmesan cheese.



Garden Fresh Three Bean Salad  #36698

This a German recipe that I adapted from Schoener Essen magazine, directly
from the German. This three bean salad is served slightly warm and calls for
fresh from the garden beans rather than canned. It is a nice change of pace if
you enjoy 3-bean salads and want to try something new. Simply click on the
"convert recipe to US" to swtich from metric to US measurements. Enjoy!

1 pound fresh green beans, cut into 1" pieces
1 pound fresh yellow wax beans, cut into 1" pieces
salt and pepper, to taste
1 pound lima beans (fresh or frozen,thawed)
2 small red onions, slivered
sugar, to taste
1-2 clove fresh garlic, minced
3/8 cup fresh lemon juice
5/8 cup olive oil
1 bunch fresh parsley, finely chopped

8 servings
25 minutes 10 mins prep

1. Boil green and yellow beans together in salted water for about 10-12 miutes.
2. Add the lima beans and cook another 2 minutes.
3. Drain and set in a serving bowl.
4. Whisk together salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, olive oil, onions,garlic,
   lemon juice, and parsley.
5. Combine dressing and beans and let sit for 10 minutes.
6. Season again with salt& pepper if needed and serve.



Microwave Bread & Butter Pickles  #3397 (transcribed)

2 	cups cucumbers, sliced, thin
3/4 	cup onions, thin sliced
1 	cup sugar
1/2 	cup white distilled vinegar
1 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon mustard seeds
1/4 	teaspoon celery seeds
1/4 	teaspoon turmeric

1. Mix all in a 2 qt. bowl (microwavable) and microwave on High 8 to 9
minutes stirring twice during cooking time. Cukes will be crisp, onions
translucent. My mom has a small microwave that is not very powerful so she had
to microwave hers a little longer.

Note from other cook: The first time I made these we felt that they were too
sweet so then I tweeked the recipe and ended up with a pickle that we now love
and the recipe is so quick and easy to follow. I use only 1/4 cup of sugar,
1/2 tsp. salt and 2 small cloves of fresh garlic minced. I keep everything
else the same.

Notes: These are really good! Definitely cut waay back on the sugar. You can
probably use a heaping 1/4 cup, but there's no way I'd want an entire cup of
sugar. Once you have the sliced cucumbers and onion things go together very
quickly.


Lynn's Famous Gazpacho  #41218 *

2 medium cucumbers, peeled & diced
2 lbs ripe tomatoes, chopped (6 large)
1/2 medium red bell pepper, coarsely chopped
1 clove garlic, chopped
3 carrots, coarsely chopped
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon olive oil
salt
pepper
celery salt or garlic salt
red pepper flakes
1/2 cup water

Garnish:
 avocados
 radishes
 cilantro
 1/4 cup red onions, thinly sliced
 6 tablespoons yogurt or sour cream (optional)

6 servings
30 minutes 30 mins prep

1. In a blender or very large food processor puree the tomatoes, red pepper,
   garlic, carrots, lemon juice, spices, olive oil, and 1/2 of the cucumber
   chunks and a 1/2 cup of water.
2. Pour into a large bowl or tupperware container, stir in the remainder of
   the diced cucumber.
3. Cover and chill overnight or for at least three hours.
4. To serve, garnish soup with onion, avocado, cilantro, radishes, etc.

Notes: Very good - definitely let it chill overnight. Produces a very
fresh-tasting and refreshing summer soup. I found the addition of sour cream
to the individual servings critical, and also added some chili sauce to my
individual serving. Really, there's nothing to tweak here - I could see maybe
adding an additional clove or two of garlic but other than that leave it be.


Spicy Cucumbers  #30457

Another popular Korean side dish.

3 	cucumbers, sliced (also great w/halved pickle cucumbers)
1 	teaspoon soy sauce
2 	cloves garlic, crushed
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1 	teaspoon toasted sesame seeds
1 	teaspoon sesame oil
1/4 	teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
1 	teaspoon sugar
1 	teaspoon red pepper paste (kochujang)

4 servings
15 minutes 15 mins prep

1. Clean cucumbers and slice 1/4" thick (unpeeled).
2. Sprinkle over with salt, stir and let sit for 10 minutes.
3. Combine ingredients, toss and serve.




Grandma Varga's Hungarian Cucumber Salad (Uborkasalata)  #87201 * (transcribed)

This is the best cucumber salad I have ever had. This is my grandmothers
recipe, (she was from Nagyszentmiklos) and this is a perfect companion dish
for chicken paprikas, although I could make a meal out of it. This will
quickly become your favorite way to eat cucumbers!

8   medium cucumbers or 15 kirby cucumbers, peeled
1/4 cup finely chopped fresh dill
1/4 cup kosher salt
1/2 pint sour cream
2   tablespoons white vinegar
2   cloves garlic, minced
1   teaspoon Hungarian paprika

1. Slice cucumbers very thinly, preferably using a mandolin.
2. Take a colander, put in a small layer of cucumbers, then sprinkle with a
   small amount of the salt.
3. Continue this method until all the salt and cucumbers are used up.
4. Cover the cucumbers with a plate inside the colander, and put a very heavy
   weight on top.
5. Make sure the colander is in a large bowl, because the cucumbers will lose
   alot of water.
6. Let them sit for 1 hour.
7. In the meantime, chop the dill and finely mince the garlic, put aside.
8. After 1 hour, take a handful of cucumbers, and squeeze out as much juice
   as you can, and continue until they are all done.
9. After the cucumbers are done, return to the colander, and weight down one
   more time for about 15 minutes.
10. You do not have to squeeze out the juice again with your hands Combine
    all ingredients in a large bowl, except the paprika.
11. After mixing thoroughly, put in a nice serving dish, and sprinkle with
    the paprika.
12. Chill for at least 2 hrs.
13. Enjoy.



Refrigerated Cukes  #79292

7-8 cucumbers, sliced but not peeled
1   large sliced onion
1   diced green pepper
1   tablespoon canning salt
1   cup sugar
1   cup vinegar
1   teaspoon celery seeds

1. Put the vegetables in a large bowl and sprinkle the salt over top.
2. Let them sit for 2-3 hours.
3. Combine the rest of the ingredients to make a brine.
4. Pour it over the vegetables.
5. Put the vegetables in jars.
6. It will keep, refrigerated, for about 10 weeks.


Cucumber Raita  #47590

This is a very cooling sauce to go with spicy curries and other hot and
piquant dishes. Try spooning it over your rice or dipping pieces of chapatis
into it. Very good!

1/2   cucumber, thinly sliced (plus a few thin slices for garnish)
1 1/2 cups plain nonfat yogurt
6     green onions, thinly sliced
1-3   fresh green chilies, seeded and finely chopped
2     tablespoons finely chopped fresh cilantro (to garnish)
salt

1. Place the cucumber into a sieve and sprinkle with salt and mix well, allow
   it to set over a sink or other place to drain for half an hour or so.
2. Pat the cucumbers dry with paper toweling.
3. Mix the yogurt in a bowl with enough salt to taste and add cucumber, green
   onions, and the chopped chilies and mix well.
4. Top with a few thin slices of cucumber and sprinkle with chopped cilantro
   and serve.
5. If not serving immediately, refrigerate until needed.



Indian Kachumber Salad

3 	large tomatoes, cubed
1 	large cucumber, chopped
1 	large onion, chopped
2 	tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon black pepper
1 	teaspoon powdered sugar

Mix all the ingredients, allow to stand for 1/2 an hour and serve with main
dish of your food.

Notes: It's a start...



Moroccan Ginger Salsa  #29345

A mexican style picante with a Mediterranean flair.

1 	can black beans (drained)
3 	large tomatoes (diced)
1 	vidalia onions (diced)
1 	can green chilies (or 2? jalapenos)
1/4 	cup fresh shredded ginger
1/2 	cup olive oil
1/2 	cup balsamic vinegar
1/4 	cup finely chopped garlic
1/2 	cup finely chopped cilantro
1 	medium cucumber (peeled,chopped, and pureed)
1/2 	cup sweet corn
	salt and pepper

1. combine all ingredients and chill.



Persian Tomato and Cucumber Salad  #96978

A very light and refreshing salad that goes well with everything. The longer
this stays the better it taste. You will also notice that the liquid increases
as the salad sits.

1 	large cucumber
1 	large tomato
1 	large onion
	parsley
	salt
1/4 	cup lemon juice (can be adjusted to your taste)
1-2 	tablespoon olive oil

1. Chop all the vegtables (tomatoe, cucumber and onion) finely.
2. Mix chopped vegtables with parsley, lemon juice and olive oil.
3. Salt to taste.



Greek Tomato Salad  #26076

Does well best as a marinated salad, although it could be served right away.

4 	fresh tomatoes, chopped
1 	cucumber, peeled and chopped
1 	green bell pepper, cut into 1/2 ",pieces
1/2 	cup chopped red onions
1 	tablespoon red wine vinegar
1 	tablespoon balsamic vinegar
1 	tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 	teaspoon salt
1 	tablespoon chopped fresh oregano
1/4 	cup kalamata olives
1/2 	cup feta cheese, crumbled (I use the fat free type)

1. Mix together vinegars, oil, salt and oregano.
2. Add other ingredients.
3. Marinate several hours in refrigerator to allow flavors to blend.
4. Serve.



Summertime Vegetable Salad  #115655

24 	ounces low fat cottage cheese (large curd)
4 	tablespoons low-fat sour cream (*)
2 	medium cucumbers (seeded, large dice) or 1 large cucumber (seeded, large dice)
3 	green onions, small dice (white and green parts)
2 	beefsteak tomatoes, seeded, large dice
1/2 	red pepper, seeded, large dice
1/2 	yellow pepper, seeded, large dice
1/2 	orange bell peppers, seeded, large dice
4 	red radishes, medium to large size, thinly sliced
1 	carrot, large, scrubbed and shredded
10 	pitted black olives, large, halved
1 	cup frozen peas, defrosted
1/2 	red onion, small dice
2 	teaspoons garlic powder
1/4 	teaspoon sea salt
	fresh ground pepper (to taste)
	fresh parsley, chopped

1. *may add more for lighter consistency.
2. * can use plain yogurt but taste will be different.
3. Combine everything but parsley, gently, in large bowl.
4. Chill 1/2 hours.
5. Serve with topping of parsley.



Welsh Rarebit  #94715

1 	lb sharp cheddar cheese, grated (about 5 cups, we use Tillamook)
2 	large egg yolks
1/4 	cup dark beer (we use Newcastle)
1 	tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 	teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 	pinch cayenne pepper
	coarse salt
	fresh ground pepper
5 	slices of hearty bread
5 	slices beefsteak tomatoes
1 	teaspoon vegetable oil

1. Preheat your broiler and line a baking sheet with foil.
2. In a medium bowl, stir together the cheese, egg yolks, beer, mustard,
   Worcestechire Sauce, and Cayenne pepper.
3. Place sliced bread on baking sheet and broil until lightly toasted on one
   side.
4. Be sure to check bread frequently, as it toasts up fairly quickly.
5. Remove bread and invert.
6. Divide the cheese mixture between the bread, pressing slightly to adhere.
7. Place tomato slices next to bread on baking sheet, drizzle tomatoes with
   oil, and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
8. Return to broiler, and cook until cheese is bubbling and golden brown.
9. Place a slice of broiled tomato on top of each slice and serve immediately.



Garden Vegetable Soup  #47640

2/3 	cup sliced carrots
1/2 	cup diced onions
2 	cloves garlic, minced
3 	cups fat free broth (beef, chicken or vegetable)
1 1/2 	cups diced green cabbage
1/2 	cup green beans
1 	tablespoon tomato paste
1/2 	teaspoon dried basil
1/4 	teaspoon dried oregano
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	cup diced zucchini

1. Spray a large saucepan with non-stick cooking spray.
2. Saute the carrot, onion and garlic over low heat until softened, about 5
   minutes.
3. Add broth, cabbage, green beans, tomato paste and simmer, covered about 15
   minutes or until beans are tender.
4. Stir in zucchini and heat 3-4 minutes.
5. Serve hot.



Green Beans and Almonds  #58261

A very simple and delicious way to serve green beans.

2 	tablespoons oil
1 	onion, finely minced
1 	clove garlic, minced
1 	lb fresh green beans or 1 (15 ounces) can green beans, drained
	salt and pepper
3 	tablespoons slivered almonds
3 	tablespoons grated parmesan cheese

1. Heat oil in skillet.
2. Add onion and garlic and saute until golden brown.
3. Add green beans and cook slowly until hot.
4. Season with salt and pepper.
5. Stir in almonds.
6. Sprinkle with cheese just before serving.



Three Bean Salad  #10268

1 	can cut green beans, drained
1 	can cut waxed yellow beans, drained
1 	can kidney beans, drained and washed
1/2 	bermuda onion, chopped
1/2 	large green pepper, chopped

DRESSING
3/4 	cup sugar
1/2 	cup oil
1 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	cup vinegar
1/2 	teaspoon pepper

1. Combine all beans, onions and green pepper.
2. Heat all dressing ingredients until dissolved and pour over vegetables.
3. Let stand 24 hours.
4. Stir occasionally.



Legal Seafoods Baked Scallops  #86307 *

2 	lbs sea scallops
	salt and pepper
1 	teaspoon fresh thyme leaves, minced
1/2 	cup buttermilk
2 	cups hand crushed Ritz crackers
1/2 	cup butter, melted
1 	small lemon, halved

1. Preheat oven to 400°F.
2. Place scallops in a bowl, season with salt and pepper, add thyme and
buttermilk and toss to coat.
3. Place scallops evenly in the bottom of an oven proof dish, sprinkle with
cracker crumbs and top with melted butter.
4. Bake for 20 minutes, squeeze lemon over scallops and serve immediately.

Notes: Excellent! You may not need quite as much butter as the recipe calls
for. The thyme goes with the scallops very well. I might consider a few
different ways to top the casserole; skip the butter, bake for a while, add
some parmessan...or add half the butter and finish with he broiler. Goes
together quickly and is well worth making again.



Baked Scallops with Mushrooms  #18632

1/4 	cup butter
1 	medium green pepper, seeded and diced
1 	cup finely chopped onions
1/2 	lb fresh button mushrooms
2 	tablespoons butter
1/4 	cup all-purpose flour
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon lemon pepper
2 1/2 	cups half-and-half cream
3 	tablespoons grated parmesan cheese (, Parmigiano Reggiano cheese preferred)
1/4 	teaspoon paprika, hungarian paprika preferred
1/8 	teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 	lb fresh scallops, rinsed
2/3 	cup dry white wine
1/2 	cup fine dry breadcrumbs
1/2 	teaspoon italian seasoning mix
2 	tablespoons butter, melted

1. Preheat oven to 450 F degrees.
2. In a large heavy bottom frying pan, melt 1/4 cup of butter; add green
pepper and onion and saute' over medium heat for 3 minutes.
3. Add sliced mushrooms and cook for 3 minutes.
4. Add 2 tablespoons butter to pan and sprinkle in flour, salt and lemon
pepper; mix well and cook on low heat for 3 more minutes, stirring constantly.
5. Remove from heat, add half and half cream, cheese, paprika and nutmeg and
stir to mix.
6. Return to heat and on medium-high heat return to boiling, stirring
consantly.
7. Reduce heat to low and cook until mixture is thick and smooth stirring
freqently.
8. Remove from heat, stir in scallops and wine.
9. Spoon mixture into buttered scallop shells or buttered baking dishes,
about 1 cup size.
10. In a small bowl, mix together bread crumbs with Italian seasoning mix and
2 tablespooons of melted butter.
11. Sprinkle bread crumb mixture over scallop mixture in each dish.
12. Bake in preheated 450 F oven for 12 to 15 minutes or until bubbling and
lightly browned on top.
13. Serve immediately.
14. If scallops are large, cut into smaller chunks before adding to mixture.




Number 400, Seafood Casserole  #16139

3/4 	lb bay scallops or sea scallops, if large cut in half horizontally,put
         in boiling water for about 4 minutes or until opaque
4 	ounces canned crabmeat, membrance removed
3/4 	lb medium-sized prawns, shelled,tail off,put in boiling water for
         about 2 minutes or until they have just turned pink
SAUCE
1/4 	cup butter
1/4 	cup flour
	salt & pepper
13 1/2 	ounces evaporated skim milk
1/4 	cup whole milk
1 1/2 	teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
1 	teaspoon Dijon mustard
1/2 	teaspoon onion powder
1/2 	cup cheddar cheese, grated
TOPPING
3 	teaspoons butter, melted
1/4 	cup dry breadcrumbs
1 	teaspoon dry parsley flakes
2 	tablespoons cheddar cheese, grated

1. To Make Sauce-------------------------.
2. Melt butter in a saucepan, mix in flour, salt& pepper.
3. Stir in both the canned and whole milk, do this gradually so you do not get any lumps.
4. Add worcestershire sauce,mustard and onion powder.
5. Heat, stirring until it boils and thickens.
6. Add cheese, stir until melted and set aside.
7. Drain seafood well and add to the sauce.
8. Turn into an ungreased 2 quart casserole dish.
9. TOPPING-------------------------8r .
10. Stir crumbs and parsley into the 3 tsp melted butter.
11. Sprinkle over top.
12. Sprinkle the 2 tbsp cheese over the crumbs.
13. Bake uncovered 350f oven for about 25 minutes or until hot.
14. You can do this dish ahead of time, just leave off the topping until the
last minute and then pop into the oven about 30 minutes before serving.






savory sea scallops in white wine sauce  #55680

this is such an easy dish but with great end results! i serve it with a pasta
such as my penne with asparagus sauce. yummy!!!

1 1/2 	tablespoons olive oil
1 1/2 	lbs sea scallops
2 	cups dry white wine
3 	tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 	tablespoon butter
2 	cloves garlic, minced
2 	tablespoons minced parsley
	fresh ground pepper

1. heat oil in heavy skillet over high heat.
2. when oil begins to smoke add scallops.
3. sear each side for one minute or until each side is golden brown.
4. add 1/2 cup of wine and lower heat to medium.
5. simmer for 2 minutes.
6. remove scallops from pan.
7. add remaining wine and lemon juice,and garlic.
8. bring to a boil and reduce by half.
9. add butter, parsley and season with pepper.
10. place scallops on a plate and smother with sauce.
11. serve.



penne pasta with asparagus sauce  #55679 *

this is an absolutely fabulous pasta side dish i created to go along with my
scallops in white wine sauce. it really highlights the scallops. hope you
enjoy!!

1 	lb fresh asparagus
1 	tablespoon fineley grated lemons, zest of
1/4 	cup olive oil
1 	lb penne pasta
3/4 	cup grated parmasean-reggiano cheese
2 	tablespoons fresh finely chopped parsley

1. cut the asparagus into one inch pieces; reserving the tips.
2. cook asparagus in 5 quarts of water until very tender 6-8 minutes.
3. reserve the water by using a slotted spoon to remove the asparagus to a
   colinder.
4. put the drained asparagus in a food processor.
5. cook the tips for 3-5 minutes until just tender.
6. remove from water with slotted spoon, reserving the water.
7. puree the stems with the lemon zest and oil and 1/2 cup of the asparagus
   water.
8. cook the pasta in the asparagus water to your liking.
9. drain the pasta saving 2 cups of the water.
10. combine the pasta,asparagus sauce and add asparagus water if the sauce is
    too thick- a little at a time.
11. stir in tips and grated cheese.
12. stir until cheese is melted.
13. serve with a light dusting of chopped parsley.

Notes: Very good! The flavor of the sauce is considerably more delicate than I
had expected. The lemon zest nearly overpowered the asparagus - be careful not
to add too much. The fibers from the asparagus didn't get chopped up by the
immersion blender we have - next time I'd just chop the spears before boiling.



Black Bean Dip with Garlic  #41447

1 can black beans, drained & rinsed
2 cloves garlic, coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped onions
2 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh cilantro, plus additional sprigs for garnish
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
1 small fresh chili pepper (your choice, pick your pain threshold)
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon thyme
salt & freshly ground black pepper

1. In a food processor, combine all the ingredients except cilantro sprigs.
2. Add 2 tbsps.
3. water and process until smooth.
4. Transfer the dip to a serving bowl, garnish with cilantro sprigs, and
serve with your favorite fat-free tortilla chips.


Hummingbird Cake  #42827

This is Southern Living's most requested recipe.

Cake
3 	cups all-purpose flour
1 	teaspoon baking soda
1 	teaspoon salt
2 	cups sugar
1 	teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 	large eggs, beaten
1 	cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 	teaspoons vanilla extract
1 (8 	ounce) can crushed pineapple, undrained
1 	cup chopped pecans
2 	cups chopped bananas
1/2 	cup chopped pecans
Cream Cheese Frosting
1 (8 	ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/2 	cup butter or margarine, softened
1 (16 	ounce) package powdered sugar, sifted
1 	teaspoon vanilla extract

1. Combine first five ingredients in a large bowl; add eggs, and oil,
   stirring until dry ingredients are moistened.
2. (Do not beat) Stir in vanilla, pineapple, 1 cup pecans, and bananas.
3. Pour batter into 3 greased and floured 9" round cakepans.
4. Bake at 350 degrees F for 25-30 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in
   center comes out clean.
5. Cool in pans on wire racks 10 minutes; remove from pans, and cool
   completely on wire racks.
6. Spread Cream Cheese Frosting between layers and on top and sides of cake;
   sprinkle 1/2 cup chopped pecans on top.
7. Store in refridgerator.
8. Cream Cheese Frosting: Beat cream cheese and butter at medium speed, with
   an elelctric mixer until smooth.
9. Gradually add powdered sugar, beating at low speed until light and fluffy.
10. Stir in vanilla.
11. Yield: 3 cups.



Grilled Lime Shrimp  #43737

1/2 	teaspoon fresh lime zest
1/4-1/2 	teaspoon cumin
1/2 	teaspoon dried oregano
1/2-1 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon pepper
2 	tablespoons olive oil
2-3 	tablespoons fresh squeezed lime juice
3 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	lb shelled deveined uncooked shrimp

1. Mix together the first 8 ingredients in a bowl.
2. Add shrimp; toss to coat.
3. Let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes to marinate.
4. Thread shrimp on metal skewers; reserve marinade.
5. Place skewered shrimp on grill over medium heat.
6. Cook 3-7 minutes or until shrimp turn pink, turning once and brushing with
marinade occasionally.




Pickled Radishes  #118828 *

2 	cups sliced radishes (8 oz.)
1 	small onion, cut into thin wedges and separated
1/2 	cup seasoned rice vinegar
1/4 	cup sugar
1 1/2 	teaspoons salt

1. Slice radishes by hand or use the slicing blade of a food processor. Place
radish slices and onions in a large bowl or crock. In another bowl stir
together vinegar, sugar, and salt until sugar is dissolved. Pour over radish
mixture.

2. Cover and refrigerate at least 8 hours or overnight before serving.
(Radish mixture will have a very pungent aroma.) Makes 2 cups.

Notes: Quite good - the pickling process does reduce the firey nature of the
radishes. The original recipe called for 1/2 cup of sugar, which is way too
much. I used regular white vinegar as well, and the pickles turned out fine.



Radish, Green Onion and Herbed Goat Cheese Stuff  #69517

This appetizer spread is good with crackers or vegies and is easy to take for
a picnic or potluck

8 	ounces soft goat cheese
2 	tablespoons milk
1/2 	cup radishes, chopped
1/2 	cup green onions, chopped
1/4 	cup fresh Italian parsley, chopped
1/8 	teaspoon salt

1. In medium bowl, combine cheese and milk; mix until creamy.
2. Stir in radishes, onions, parsley and salt.
3. If necessary, add additional milk for ease in spreading.



Cauliflower Salad  #81436

1 	cauliflower, cut into small pieces
1 	can sliced water chestnuts, drained
3/4 	cup light mayonnaise
1 	package ranch dressing mix
1 	cup sliced radishes
1/2 	cup chopped onions
3/4 	cup sour cream
	dill weed, to taste (optional)

1. Mix all except dill weed together.
2. Add dill and taste.
3. Better if left overnight.



Radish Spread  #12194

This recipe comes from a friend. I was very skeptical the first time I tried
it but it is delicious. Whenever I take it to a gathering the recipe is always
requested

8 	ounces cream cheese (softened)
1/2 	cup butter or margarine (softened)   <--- not so sure about this one...
1/2 	teaspoon celery salt
1/8 	teaspoon paprika
1/8 	teaspoon red cayenne pepper
1/2 	teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 	cup finely chopped red radishes
1/4 	cup finely chopped green onions

1. Mix all ingredients together.
2. Chill.
3. Serve on rye rounds or crackers.



Squash Casserole  #26557

1 	medium bell pepper, cut in 1/2 in cubes
1/4 	cup margarine
1 	medium onion, diced
2 	medium zucchini or 4 small yellow squash
1 (16 	ounce) can tomatoes
4 	slices bread, toasted and cut in small cubes
1 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1/4 	teaspoon garlic salt
1/2 	teaspoon oregano
	parmesan cheese

1. Saute onions&bell pepper in margarine for 5 minutes,add squash that has
 been sliced and cubed.
2. Saute 5 min more,add tomatoes, (break up whole tomatoes) cook 5 more
 minutes.
3. Add bread cubes and seasonings.
4. Put in 2 quart casserole,sprinkle top with parmesan cheese.
5. Bake at 350 for 30 to 40 minutes.


Ratatouille (Crockpot)  #58047

Make a whole meal out of the French Vegetarian Classic while it is warm or
offer it chilled as a salad course. Serve with a crusty bread and top with
feta cheese, if desired. From the Best Slow Cooker Cookbook Ever.

1 	large eggplant, peeled and cut into 1 inch cubes
	salt
2 	medium onions, chopped
2 	cups chopped fresh tomatoes (about 3 medium)
1 	large green bell pepper, cut into 1/2 inch squares
1 	large red bell pepper or yellow bell pepper, cut into 1/2 inch squares
3 	medium zucchini, sliced
3 	tablespoons olive oil
3 	tablespoons dried basil
2 	cloves garlic, crushed through a press
1/2 	teaspoon fresh ground pepper
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste
1 (5 1/2 ounce) can pitted ripe olives, dreained and chopped coarsely
3 	tablespoons chopped fresh basil

1. Sprinkle the eggplant with salt; let stand in a colander 1/2- 1 hour to
 drain.
2. Press out excess moisture.
3. Rinse the eggplant with water and pat dry with paper towels.
4. Place the eggplant in crockpot.
5. Add onions, tomatoes, bell peppers, zucchini, olive oil, basil, garlic,
 pepper and 1/2 tsp salt.
6. Mix well.
7. Cover and cook on high setting about 3 hours or until the vegetables are
 tender but still hold their shape.
8. Stir in the tomato paste, olives, and the fresh basil.
9. Serve hot, room temperature or chilled.


Mediterranean Vegetables  #24235

	vegetable cooking spray
1 	large red onion, cut into 1/4-inch wedges
2 	medium zucchini, sliced diagonally
2 	crookneck yellow squash, sliced diagonally
2 	tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 	tablespoon chopped fresh thyme
1 	teaspoon olive oil

1. Preheat oven to 400°F.
2. Spray large baking sheet with nonstick spray.
3. Toss onion and next 5 ingredients together on prepared baking sheet;
 spread in single layer.
4. Sprinkle with salt and pepper.
5. Bake vegetables until tender and brown around edges, stirring
 occasionally, about 35 minutes.
6. Makes 4 servings.



Zucchini Pancakes  #52348

2 	cups grated unpeeled zucchini
1/3 	cup flour
1/2 	teaspoon baking powder
2 	eggs, beaten
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon sugar
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1 	tablespoon milk
1/4 	cup grated parmesan cheese
	butter

1. Mix all ingredients, except butter, in order listed.
2. Heat butter, 1 T.
3. for each batch of pancakes, in a large skillet or griddle.
4. Pour 1/4 cup batter into skillet, cook until light brown, flip and cook the
   second side.
5. Serve immediately.

Notes: These rock! A good way to use a couple of squash or a medium-sized
zucchini. They come out golden brown and delicious, and because of their
neutral flavor, they could go with just about anything. I think they'd be good
at breakfast as well as for dinner. We put a bit of sour cream on ours - it
was a nice touch, but gravy would also work, or - they're fine by themselves.


Baked Zucchini Sticks  #69063

3/4 	cup breadcrumbs
1/4 	cup grated parmesan cheese
1/2 	teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 	teaspoon dried sage
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon black pepper
2 	eggs
3 	medium zucchini, cut into 3 by 1/2 inch sticks
1/4 	cup vegetable oil

1. In a bowl, combine bread crumbs, parmesan, garlic powder, sage salt and
   pepper; mix well.
2. In another bowl, beat eggs lightly.
3. Dip zucchini sticks in eggs, then in bread crumb mixture.
4. Transfer to a baking sheet.
5. Drizzle with oil. bake at 375 degrees for 20 minutes, or until lightly
   browned, turning sticks over once halfway through baking time.
7. ***NOTE*** Be sure to use only DRY bread crumbs, or they will not stick to
   the zucchini sticks.



Marinated and Grilled Summer Squash  #102237

2 	tablespoons white wine vinegar
2 	tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 	tablespoon minced garlic
2 	teaspoons chopped fresh thyme leaves
	salt and black pepper
1/3 	cup extra virgin olive oil
3 	large zucchini
3 	large yellow squash

1. Whisk together the vinegar, lemon juice, garlic and thyme in a large bowl.
2. Season with salt and pepper and gradually whisk in the olive oil.
3. Slice both of the squash diagonally into 1/4" thick slices.
4. Spoon 3 tablespoons of the marinade into a small bowl, cover and set aside.
5. Add all the squash to the remaining marinade in the large bowl and toss to
   coat.
6. Transfer the mixture to a 13x9 glass baking dish, cover and marinate at
   room temperature for at least 3 hours.
7. Can also be refrigerated for up to one day to marinate.
8. Season squash with a little additional salt and pepper and grill on the
   barbecue or on an indoor grill pan until they are crisp tender and brown,
   turning occasionally for about 8 minutes.
9. Transfer squash to a serving platter and drizzle with the reserved 3
   tablespoons of marinade.
10. Serve hot or at room temperature.




Granny's Slow Cooker Vegetarian Chili  #51140

This is a rich,satisfying meal that freezes well. Great on a cold winter day.
Serve with tortilla, cornbread, French bread, or/and rice! Enjoy!

1 (11 	ounce) can condensed black bean soup (or canned black beans in juice)
1 (15 	ounce) can kidney beans, drained and rinsed
1 (15 	ounce) can garbanzo beans, drained and rinsed (sometimes I use lentils)
1 (16 	ounce) can vegetarian baked beans
1 (14 1/2 ounce) can chopped tomato puree (or 29 oz. can crushed tomatoes)
1 (15 	ounce) can whole kernel corn, drained
1 	onion, chopped
1 	green bell pepper, chopped
2 	zucchini, chopped
2 	stalks celery, chopped
2 	cloves garlic, chopped
1 (4 	ounce) can diced chilies
1-2 	jalapeno, chopped (depending on how much heat you want)
1 	tablespoon chili powder
2 	teaspoons cumin
1 	tablespoon dried parsley
1 	tablespoon dried oregano
1 	tablespoon dried basil
1 	tablespoon cilantro (optional)


1. In a saucepan, saute the onion, bell pepper, zucchini, and celery for
about 5 minutes.
2. In a slow cooker, combine black bean soup, kidney beans, garbanzo beans,
baked beans, tomatoes, corn, onion, bell pepper, zucchini, jalapeno, chilies,
and celery.
3. Season with garlic, chili powder, cumin, parsley, oregano, basil (and
cilantro if using).
4. Cook for about 6 hours on low.
5. Serve with tortillas, cornbread, rice, or French bread.
6. Enjoy!
7. This freezes well!
8. Leftovers are good on top of nachos!




Stuffed Zucchini  #32048

I have an abundance of zucchini from my garden. This recipe is a great way to
use it. The Italian herbs make it incredible.

1 1/2 	lbs lean ground beef
1 	large onion, chopped
1 	large green pepper, chopped
1 	jalapeno pepper, seeded and chopped
1 1/4 	cups soft breadcrumbs
1 	egg, beaten
1 	tablespoon dried parsley flakes
1 	teaspoon dried basil
1 	teaspoon italian seasoning
1 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
2 (8 	ounce) cans tomato sauce, divided
2 	medium tomatoes, coarsely chopped
4-5 	medium zucchini
2 	cups shredded mozzarella cheese

1. In a large bowl, combine the first 11 ingredients and one can of tomato
sauce; mix well.
2. Stir in tomatoes.
3. Halve zucchini lengthwise; scoop out center part of zucchini to about 1/4
inch from edges.
4. Fill with meat mixture; place in two 13x9 inch baking dishes.
5. Spoon remaining tomato sauce over each.
6. Bake uncovered, at 375 degrees for 45 minutes or until the zucchini is
tender.
7. Sprinkle with cheese during last few minutes or baking.



zucchini squares  #47639

an easy party dish out of my archives

3 	cups thinly sliced zucchini
1 	cup Bisquick
1/2 	cup grated parmesan cheese
1/2 	cup diced onions
2 	tablespoons parsley
1 	teaspoon oregano or marjoram
	salt and pepper
1 	clove garlic, chopped
4 	eggs
1/2 	cup canola oil

1. heat oven to 350.
2. grease a 13x9x2" pan.
3. mix all ingredients, spread in pan.
4. bake until golden brown, aprox 25 minutes.
5. cut into squares.


Potato, Zucchini and Onion Slices with fresh herbs  #71122

Fresh garden herbs are used to prepare this vegetable side dish. If you want
to cook these in the oven with meat, adjust the oven temperature to correspond
to the temperature that you are using to cook the other dishes (between 350 -
425 adjusting the time necessary to cook the vegetables). Recipe adapted from
The Way We Cook.

2 	teaspoons rosemary, chopped
1 	tablespoon chives, chopped
1 	teaspoon oregano, chopped
2 	potatoes, peeled
2 	zucchini
1 	onion
1 	green pepper
	olive oil
1 	teaspoon salt (optional)
1/2 	teaspoon pepper

1. Preheat oven to 425-degrees F.
2. Grease or oil 13 x 9-inch pan.
3. Combine herbs (rosemary, chives and oregano) in small bowl.
4. Using a food processor or a knife, slice potaotes, zucchini, green pepper
and onion into thin slices.
5. Toss vegetables.
6. In prepared pan, place one layer of vegetables, sprinkle with olive oil,
add some herbs and salt (if using) and pepper.
7. Repeat layers (having three uneven layers).
8. Cook in preheated oven for 20 minutes.
9. Turn vegetables (vegetable layers will break up but that's okay).
10. Continue turning vegetables unitl all are turned over.
11. Continue cooking for 20-30 minutes or until vegetables are cooked and
potatoes are golden brown.


Indian Ratatouille  #95437

This is an intriguing twist on a classic, Indian spices combined with
Mediterrran flavors. A mini food processor works really well for chopping the
garlic, chile, and ginger root. Serve on rice or orzo or accompanied by a
crusty loaf of bread. Adapted from Moosewood Restaraunt New Classics cookbook.
Enjoy!

2 	cups diced onions
2 	tablespoons olive oil
3 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	fresh chili pepper, minced,seeded for a milder hot
1 	tablespoon grated fresh gingerroot
1 	teaspoon ground cumin
1 	teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 	teaspoon turmeric
1/2 	teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 	teaspoon ground cardamom
1 	teaspoon salt
1 	pinch of crumbled saffron (optional)
1 	cup orange juice
5 	cups cubed eggplants, 1 inch cubes
4 	cups cubed zucchini or yellow squash or pattypan squash
1 1/2 	cups diced bell peppers
3 	cups diced fresh tomatoes or 1 (28 ounce) can tomatoes, undrained
1/4 	cup chopped fresh basil

1. In a stew pot, saute the onions in the oil on medium heat until
translucent, about 10 minutes.
2. Stir in the garlic, chile, ginger, cumin, coriander, turmeric, cinnamon,
cardamom, salt, and saffron and saute for a minute, stirring constantly.
3. Add the orange juice and eggplant, toss to coat with the spices, cover,
and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, until the eggplant is barely tender.
4. Add the squash, bell peppers, tomatoes, and basil.
5. Cover and continue to simmer about 15 minutes, until all of the vegetables
are tender.
6. Add a little more orange juice or water if necessary to prevent sticking.
7. Serve hot or at room temperature.
8. If you like, add a dollop of plain yogurt to each serving and top with
fresh basil and a few toasted almonds or pistachios.



Zucchini Parmesan Casserole  #68994

This will help get rid on your zucchini glut in a tasty way!

1 	tablespoon butter, divided
4 	cups sliced zucchini
1 1/4 	cups parmesan cheese
1/4 	cup mayonnaise
1/4 	cup sour cream
3/4 	cup chopped onions
1/4 	cup chopped red bell peppers
2 	large eggs, beaten
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
1/4 	cup Progresso Italian-style fine bread crumbs

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
2. Butter a 1 and 1/2 quart baking dish.
3. Melt 1/2 the butter in a large skillet over medium high heat.
4. Saute zucchini in butter until tender, about 3-4 minutes.
5. Drain.
6. Combine 1 cup parmesan cheese, mayonaise, sour cream, onion, red pepper,
eggs, salt and pepper.
7. Add the zucchini and toss gently to mix.
8. Pour into prepared baking dish and even the top.
9. Mix the bread crumbs with the parmesan cheese.
10. Melt the remaining butter, drizzle onto crumb mixture and toss to combine.
11. Sprinkle on the casserole.
12. Bake for 35 minutes.



Baja Vegetable Stew  #91509

From the Ellsworth Cooking School in Ellsworth, Maine.

2 	red chili peppers, seeded and chopped
4 	teaspoons olive oil
1 	cup onions, chopped
2 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	teaspoon cumin
3 	tomatoes, seeded and chopped
2 	cups broth (vegetable or chicken)
1 	red bell pepper, roughly chopped into 1" pieces
1 	yellow bell pepper, roughly chopped into 1" pieces
2 	zucchini, chopped
1 	cup corn
	salt and pepper, to taste
2 	cups black beans (1 15-oz can is 1 1/2 cups and will do)
1 	cup kidney beans (1 15-oz can is 1 1/2 cups and will do)
3/4 	teaspoon cider vinegar

1. In a skillet, roast chilies for 20-30 seconds over high heat.
2. Remove from heat and let cool.
3. In a large pot, heat 2 tsp olive oil over medium-high heat and sautee
onions until golden.
4. Add garlic and cumin and cook, stirring constantly for about 30 seconds.
5. Add tomatoes, broth and chilies.
6. Reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
7. In batches in a blender or with a stick blender, puree the soup.
8. Pour through a fine sieve, cheesecloth or food mill, if desired.
9. In a skillet, heat 2 tsp olive oil over medium-high heat.
10. Add bell peppers, zucchini and corn.
11. Season with salt and pepper and cook until tender- about 4 minutes.
12. Add to broth mixture with the black beans and kidney beans.
13. Simmer for 1-2 minutes, until vegetables are tender.
14. Stir in the vingegar and garnish with cilantro, lime wedges and avacado.


Mexican Two Bean Chicken Chili  #108784

This is a Pampered Chef recipe. It goes together very quickly. I made it
during a party and it was completely demolished.

1 	medium zucchini, diced
1 (15 	ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed
1 (15 	ounce) can pinto beans, drained and rinsed
1 (8 	ounce) can whole kernel corn, drained
2 (14 	ounce) cans chicken broth
1 (16 	ounce) jar thick & chunky salsa
1 (8 	ounce) can tomato sauce
2 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	tablespoon chili powder
1 	tablespoon cumin
3 	cups cooked chicken breasts, shredded

1. Put all ingredients in a stock pot.
2. Bring to a boil, lower heat and simmer for 30 minutes.
3. Serve with cheddar cheese, sour cream, and tortilla chips.


Penne & Sausages A La Vodka  #52417

This recipe is an original creation specifically for the cooking contest. I
used the mild Italian sausages but you could increase the heat by using the
spicy type & adding more cumin. I served it with Caesar salad & Garlic bread.
My DH just loved the sauce & wants me to make this dish again!!

1 	lb Italian pork sausages, sweet or spicy
2 	tablespoons butter
1 	tablespoon olive oil
1 	large onion, diced
3 	cloves garlic, minced
1 	medium red pepper, seeded & cut into strips
1 	medium zucchini, cut into strips
1 (14 	ounce) can tomato sauce
1 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon white pepper
1/2 	teaspoon cumin
1/3 	cup vodka
1/2 	cup half-and-half cream
1/4 	teaspoon nutmeg
1/3 	cup freshly grated parmesan cheese
1 	lb penne
1 	tablespoon parsley, finely chopped

1. Prick sausage casings several times& cook in lightly salted, boiling water
for 3 minutes.
2. Drain, cool& slice into rounds about 1/2 inch thick.
3. Melt butter& oil in a very large skillet.
4. Add sausages, onion& garlic; cook on medium heat until sausages are
lightly browned.
5. Add peppers& zucchini& cook for 2 minutes.
6. Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil.
7. Add penne& cook, according to package directions, until al dente (approx 9
minutes).
8. Drain well.
9. In the meantime, add tomato sauce, salt, pepper& cumin to the sausage
mixture.
10. Simmer, stirring occasionally, for about 6 minutes or until sauce starts
to thicken.
11. Add vodka& cook for another minute, stirring constantly.
12. Add the cream, nutmeg& Parmesan; simmer for 2 minutes, stirring
constantly Add pasta to skillet; toss or stir well and serve sprinkled with
parsley& additional Parmesan.


Top Secret Recipes version of
Duncan Hines Moist Deluxe Dark Chocolate Cake Mix

Let’s say you want to make some chocolate cake -- like the popular mixes that
come in a box -- but you don’t have much of a craving for propylene glycol
mono- and diesters of fats, polyglycerol esters of fatty acids, cellulose gum,
mono-and diglycerides or xanthan gum. Well, if you’re making cake from a box
mix, that’s what you’ll be eating. Many of those additives are what give the
cake you make with Duncan Hines cake mix its deluxe moistness. The good news
is we can come very close to duplicating the store-bought cake mix with very
simple dry ingredients and a little shortening. By combining the dry stuff,
then thoroughly mixing in the shortening, you will have a mix that is
shelf-stable until you add the same wet ingredients in the same amounts
required by the real stuff. It’s a great way to make good, old-fashioned
chocolate cake without the hard-to-pronounce additives. Plus, this mix is the
same stuff required for the Oreo cookie clone here on the site. If you can’t
track down the cake mix for that recipe, you now can make it from scratch.

2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 cups baker’s sugar (superfine sugar)
3/4 cup cocoa
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
4 tablespoons shortening

To make cake
1 1/3 cups water
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs

1. Combine flour, sugar, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a
  large bowl. Stir to combine. Add shortening, then use an electric mixer on
  medium speed to blend shortening into dry ingredients. Mix until no chunks of
  shortening are visible. This is your cake mix, which you can keep in a sealed
 container for several months until you are ready to make the cake.
2. To make the cake preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease the sides and
  bottom of two 9-inch baking pans or one 13x9-inch pan. Lightly flour the
  greased pans.
3. Blend dry cake mix (from step #1) with water, oil and eggs in a large bowl
  with an electric mixer at low speed until moistened. Increase speed to medium
 and beat for 2 more minutes.
4. Pour batter into pans and bake for 30 to 33 minutes for 9-inch pans, and
  35 to 38 minutes for 13x9-inch pan. You can also make cupcakes with the mix.
  They take 19 to 22 minutes.



Summer Squash Soup  #3709

1 	lb yellow squash or 2 medium zucchini, sliced
2 	cups water
2 	tablespoons chicken bouillon cubes
2 	medium onions, sliced
1/8 	teaspoon hot sauce (optional)
	fresh ground pepper
1/4 	cup plain yogurt (plus)
2 	tablespoons plain yogurt

1. Combine water, bouillon cubes, zucchini or yellow squash and onions in
medium saucepan. Bring to a boil.
2. Cover, reduce heat and simmer 10 to 15 minutes.
3. Add hot sauce and pepper.
4. Spoon squash mixture into the container of an electric blender.
5. Add yogurt. Process until smooth.
6. Serve hot or cold.
7. May be frozen.

Notes: Can substitute chicken broth for the water/bouillon.


Italian Zucchini Pie  #60759

A very nice zuchinni recipe.Similar to a quiche but,with no crust. I like to
serve this at room temperature.

4   cups sliced zucchini
1   cup chopped onions
1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon dried basil
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
2   eggs
2   cups shredded cheese (mozzarella, muenster, or monterey jack)

1. Saute zuchinni and onion in a little oil until tender.
2. Beat eggs with a fork and add herbs,cayenne,salt and grated cheese.
3. Mix together.
4. Add cooked zuchinni mixture to egg and cheese.
5. Mix well.
6. Pour into a greased baking dish.
7. Bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes.
8. Let sit for 5 minutes before serving.



All American County Fair Prize Winning Chili  #57204

After my five roomates and I have this for dinner I am still left with about
30 to 40 individual servings in the freezer. This chili freezes perfectly. I
make this up once every 6 months and the last bag tastes just as good as the
day I made it! Before sharing this recipe I had to think long and hard because
it truely is my most prized and coveted recipe. It took me years of playing
around and it's just near perfect. If you win at the county fair all I ask for
is honorable mention, a picture of the ribbon, a postcard from your town, and
maybe your favorite pie recipe! Be sure to load it up with cheddar, sour
cream, bread and nacho chips!! Also great for chili dogs!!

1 	can tomatoes
1 	can tomato sauce
2 	cans tomato paste
	water
1 	medium onion, chopped
3-5 	cloves garlic, minced
4-5 	stalks celery, chopped
1 	green pepper, chopped
1 	sweet red pepper, chopped
5 	chili peppers, whole (cut slits lengthwise)
5 	jalapeno peppers, whole (cut slits lengthwise)
1 	zucchini, chopped
1 	eggplant, chopped
1 	bag baby carrots (whole)
	mushrooms (whole)
1 	bag frozen corn
	steak, diced (any cut)
	ground meat (any, I like to use chicken)
	dark red kidney beans, cooked
	black turtle beans, cooked
	lentils, cooked
1 	pinch oregano
	basil, to taste
1/4-1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 	teaspoon cinnamon
	black pepper
2 	tablespoons cocoa powder

1. Put all ingrediants in a pot and cook for 5 to 10 hours.
2. Stir occasionally.
3. The ingredients list is enough to make 2 pots worth (dutch oven size).
4. I usually omit the meat from one pot and make a vegetarian batch at the
same time.
5. It's good for your vegan friends and as lighter fare for lunch!
6. Put the chile and jalapeno peppers in last with their stems sticking up
out of the chili.
7. This makes them easy to remove for those who don't want their chili hot!

Notes: I can see this recipe is going to take some tinkering, but it sure
looks interesting...
Ok - I'm making this now and can already say that we like/need some chili
powder added to these igredients. The above mixture, while a very interesting
and good mixture, just doesn't identify itself as chili to us. Maybe our
tastes aren't very sophisticated, but once I added a few tablespoons of chili
powder, it really seemed to come together. I left out a few ingredients this
first time (mushrooms and lentils), but added as much of the rest as possible.
It's good, very good. I'll need to tinker some more before I have a final
opinion on this chili vs. the simple and quick chili I'm used to making. It
does take quite a while to get all the ingredients together; it's not
something you can make after you get home from work by any means.


Spicy Peanut soup  #50572

I recieved this recipe from Carolina Rice. It's a nice and hearty soup. RICH!

1 	tablespoon vegetable oil
1 	large onion, chopped
1 	medium sweet potato, diced
2 	cloves garlic, minced
8 	cups chicken broth
1 	teaspoon dried thyme leaves
1/2 	teaspoon ground cumin
1 	cup rice
3 	cups thick & chunky salsa
3 (16 	ounce) cans garbanzo beans, drained and rinsed
1 	cup diced unpeeled zucchini
2/3 	cup creamy peanut butter

1. In a large saucepan, heat vegatable oil to medium-high heat and saute the
  onions,sweet potato,and garlic,stirring occasionally, until onion is softened,
  about 5 min.
2. Add the chicken broth,thyme,cumin,and rice.
3. bring to a boil,reduce heat and simmer,cover,until rice is cooked and
  vegetables are tender,18-20 minutes.
4. Add the salsa,beans and zucchini and cook until zucchini is tender about
  10 minutes.
5. Add peanut butter and stir until completely combined.


Turkish Salad  #82177

This delicious fresh vegetable salad is found on dining tables throughout
Turkey and served prior to the main course.

1 1/2 	cups diced tomatoes
1 	cup diced green bell peppers
1 	cup diced peeled cucumbers
1/2 	cup minced fresh parsley
1/3 	cup green onions
1/4 	cup fresh lemon juice
2 	tablespoons water
1 	tablespoon olive oil
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/8 	teaspoon fresh ground pepper

1. Combine all ingredients in a bowl and chill for at least 1 hour before
  serving.


Chicken Souvlaki Salad  #35233

This recipe was in the 'food' section of our local paper a couple of weeks
ago. We made it while on a camping trip, a very refreshing and different
salad! It has a definate greek taste and is very low-cal! Time does not
include marinating (if you chose to do so).

For Chicken Marinade
1 	teaspoon minced garlic
1 	teaspoon lemon juice
1 	teaspoon olive oil
1/2 	teaspoon dried oregano
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1 	lb boneless chicken breasts
For Dressing
1/2 	cup plain fat-free yogurt
1/4 	cup grated peeled cucumbers
1 	teaspoon white wine vinegar
1 	teaspoon minced garlic
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/4 	teaspoon black pepper
Salad Fixins
3 	cucumbers, peeled and cubed
1/2 	red onion, sliced
1/2 	cup crumbled feta cheese (I actually like more)
1/2 	cup chopped kalamata olives (again-I like more!)
1 	tomato, seeded and cubed

1. Mix all of the marinade ingredients in a bag with the chicken.
2. Shake to coat.
3. Original recipe didn't call for any marinade time, but we marinated for a
  couple of hours.
4. Broil, Grill, or pan fry chicken untill done.
5. Set chicken aside to cool slightly.
6. Cut chicken into 1" pieces.
7. Combine all dressing ingredients together in a bowl.
8. Mix well.
9. Combine Chicken with salad fixins, pour dressing over all and mix well.
10. Enjoy!



Cucumber Salad  #92829

2 	cucumbers, sliced thin
1 	green pepper, diced
1 	onion, diced
2 	cups sugar
1 	cup cider vinegar
1 	tablespoon salt
1/2 	tablespoon celery seeds (adjust amount to your taste)

1. Place all the prepared vegetables in a bowl.
2. Heat sugar and vinegar until sugar is dissolved.
3. Pour over vegetables and stir.
4. Add the remaining ingredients and stir till well mixed.
5. Chill for several hours.


Hummus Amongus  #22060

There's a large Middle Eastern population in Bayridge Brooklyn and amazing
restaurants line the avenues...hummus is served with every dish on the
menu...it's one of my favorite things in the whole wide world...if you haven't
tried it, please do. I think you'll love it!

1 (15 	ounce) can chickpeas
1/4 	cup tahini paste
3 	tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 	garlic clove
1/4 	teaspoon ground cumin
	salt and pepper

1. Drain beans; reserve water.
2. In a food processor or blender add beans and all the ingredients.
3. Process until smooth.
4. If mixture is too thick, add some of the reserved liquid from the beans to
  dilute to a desired consistency.
5. Serve at room temperature with pita bread, grilled pork, lamb or chicken.



Creamy Cucumber Dressing  #35419

Very lite for a hot summer day, works great as a veggie dip aswell.

1 	cup nonfat plain yogurt
1/2 	medium cucumber, chopped fine
1 	teaspoon lemon juice, fresh squeezed
1 	clove garlic, minced very fine
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon white pepper

1. Blend ingredients together in a jar and store in the refrigerator.
2. Use generously with falafel as well as with fresh green salads.


IHOP Pancakes

Nonstick Spray
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 egg
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 heaping teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup cooking oil
pinch of salt

1. Preheat skillet over medium heat. Use a pan with nonstick surface or apply
   a little nonstick spray.
2. In a blender or with a mixer, combine all of the remaining ingredients
   until smooth.
3. Ladle approx. 1/3 cup of batter into the hot skillet, forming 5-inch
   circles.
4. When the edges appear to harden after a minute or so, flip the pancakes.
   They should be golden brown.
5. Cook pancakes on other side for same amount of time, until golden brown.


KFC Coleslaw

1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup milk
1/4 cup buttermilk
2 1/2 T lemon juice
1 1/2 T white vinegar
1/2 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. pepper
8 cups finely chopped cabbage (about 1 head)
1/4 cup shredded carrot
2 T minced onion

1. Be sure cabbage and carrots are chopped into very fine pieces (about the
   size of grains of rice).
2. Combine mayo, sugar, vinegar, milk, buttermilk, lemon juice, salt and
   pepper in a large bowl and beat until smooth.
3. Add cabbage, carrot, and onion and mix well.
4. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours before serving.



Little Caesar's Crazy Bread

10-ounce tube Pillsbury pizza dough
2 T butter
1 tsp. garlic salt
parmesan cheese

1. Heat oven to 425 F
2. Unroll dough on cutting board. Cut into 8 long even strips of dough (cut in
   half, then each piece in half, etc.).
3. Being careful not to stretch the dough, place each strip on a lightly
   greased baking sheet and bake for 6-8 minutes, or until tops just turn golden
   brown.
4. While dough is baking, melt butter and add garlic salt.
5. Remove browned dough from the oven and brush with melted butter.
6. Sprinkle with a generous amount of parmesan cheese on each - serve with
   spaghetti dipping sauce.


Outback Steakhouse Bleu Cheese Dressing

1 cup mayonnaise
2 T buttermilk
1 T crumbled bleu cheese
1/8 tsp. pepper
1/8 tsp. onion powder
1/8 tsp. garlic powder

1. Mix all ingredients in a bowl by hand until smooth.

2. Cover and chill for 30 mins before serving.



Soup Nazi's Mulligatawny Soup

4 quarts water
6 cups chicken stock
2 potatoes, peeled and diced
2 carrots, peeled and diced
2 stalks celery with tops, diced
2 cups peeled and diced eggplant
1 med onion, chopped
1 cup frozen yellow corn
2/3 cup canned roasted red peppers, diced
1/2 cup tomato sauce
1/2 cup shelled pistachios
1/2 cup roasted cashews
1/2 cup chopped fresh Italian parsley
1/4 cup lemon juice
1/4 cup butter
3 T sugar
1/2 tsp curry powder
1/2 tsp pepper
1/4 tsp thyme
1 bay leaf
dash marjoram
dash nutmeg

Combine all ingredients in a large pot over high heat.

Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 2-3 hours or until soup has
thickened and brownish in color. It should have the consistancy of chili. Stir
occaisonally for the first few hours but frequently in the last hour. Serve
hot.

Notes: Good! Not sure if it's quite as good as our other favorite Mulligatawny but
very good all the same. We had some trouble thickening our batch because you add so
much water to it at the beginning. You can definitely halve the water to start with
and see what develops from there. Next time I make this I'll probably only add one
quart of water before simmering.


Baja Black Beans, Corn and Rice  #55768

A south of the border blend of textures and flavors. serve hot as a main dish
or a side dish with grilled meat or chicken.

6 	cups brown rice, cooked
1 (15 	ounce) can black beans, rinsed and drained
1 (15 	ounce) can corn, drained
4 	fresh tomatoes, diced
1/2 	cup red onions, chopped
1/2 	cup cilantro, chopped
1 	jalapeno pepper, seeded and diced
2 	tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 	tablespoon olive oil
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon fresh ground pepper
2 	dashes hot sauce

1. Cook brown rice.
2. In a medium bowl, combine black beans, corn, tomatoes, onion, cilantro,
   jalapeno, lime juice, oil, salt, pepper and hot sauce.
3. To serve, Place a scoop of hot rice in a bowl or on a plate, top with a
   generous scoop of the black bean mixture.
4. Stir together before eating.





Bean and Macaroni Soup  #31529

This cholesterol-free tasty dish is virtually fat free and is prepared with
only 1 tbsp. of oil. You can eat the whole pot. I have a trick after reading
the reviews about the pasta soaking up the liquid. Cook the pasta seperate and
drain put in a bowl next to the soup for serving. Put 2 or three good size
spoonfuls in bottom of bowl then ladle the soup over it. Thats how i do it
with pasta and rice soups.

2 (16 	ounce) cans great northern beans
1 	tablespoon olive oil
1/2 	lb fresh mushrooms, sliced
1 	cup onions, coarsely chopped
2 	cups carrots, sliced
1 	cup celery, coarsely chopped
1 	clove garlic, minced
3 	cups cut-up peeled fresh tomatoes or 1 1/2 lbs canned whole tomatoes,
         cut up
1 	teaspoon dried sage
1 	teaspoon dried thyme
1/2 	teaspoon dried oregano
	fresh ground black pepper
1 	bay leaf, crumbled
4 	cups cooked elbow macaroni

1. Drain beans and reserve liquid, rinse beans.
2. Heat oil in a 6-quart kettle; add mushrooms, onion, carrots, celery, and
   garlic and saute for 5 minutes.
3. Add tomatoes, sage, thyme, oregano, pepper, and bay leaf.
4. Cover and cook over medium heat 20 minutes.
5. Cook macaroni according to directions on package using unsalted water.
6. Drain when cooked.
7. Do not overcook.
8. Combine reserved bean liquid with water to make 4 cups.
9. Add liquid, beans, and cooked macaroni to vegetable mixture.
10. Bring to a boil; cover and simmer until soup is throughly heated.
11. Stir occasionally.



Shrimp w/shredded zucchini  #61568

the zucchini makes a perfect "bed" for the shrimp. yellow squash can also be
used, or you can use a combo of both. this has true eye appeal

4 	zucchini
1 	teaspoon salt
1 	lb shrimp, peeled and deveined
4 	tablespoons butter
2 	tablespoons olive oil
	salt & pepper
3 	cloves minced garlic
1/2 	cup chicken broth
1/2 	teaspoon red pepper flakes
1/2 	chopped parsley

1. shred zucchini with manual shredder or in processor, lengthwise.
2. layer in a colander and sprinkle with salt while you prepare the shrimp.
3. rinse zucchini and drain well.
4. in a skillet melt 2 tbsp butter and 1 tbsp oil, add zucchini and cook 3
   minutes,add salt& pepper, remove and set aside.
5. melt remaining butter and oil, add shrimp and garlic, cook until shrimp
   turns pink, 3 minutes.
6. add broth, bring to a boil, add red pepper and parsley, cook 1 minute more.
7. serve shrimp over zucchini.

Notes: Dave and Kathryn tested this recipe and gave it a thumbs-up!



Zucchini Spoon Bread  #99282

This spoon bread is delicious, a good way to use those zucchini out of the
garden. For extra flavor or heat add 2 or 3 jalapeno peppers. Recipes comes
from Betters Homes and Gardens.com

1  	cup fresh corn or frozen corn
1/2 	cup chopped onions
1/2 	cup green sweet peppers, cut in strips
1/2 	cup water
1 	cup chopped zucchini
4 	ounces shredded cheddar cheese
1/2 	cup cornmeal
2 	eggs, slightly beaten
1/2 	cup milk
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
3-5 	dashes bottled hot pepper sauce (or use jalapeno peppers)
1 	cup chopped tomatoes
1/2 	teaspoon salt

1. In a large saucepan combine, corn, onions, pepper strips, and water; bring
   to boiling; reduce heat, cover and simmer for 5 minutes (If adding
   Jalapenos, add in this step).
2. Do Not drain, stir in zucchini, tomatoes, cheese and cornmeal, set aside.
3. In a small mixing bowl beat eggs; stir in milk, salt, pepper, and hot
   pepper sauce; STIR egg mixture into the vegetable mixture in saucepan.
4. Turn mixture into a greased 1-1/2-quart casserole;Bake, uncovered, in a
   350 degree oven about 40 minutes or until set, Let stand for 5 minutes
   before serving.

Notes: This is quite good. It turned out a little dry for my liking; I may add
a drizzle of cooking oil to the final mixture before baking next time. The
dryness may have been due to my cooking away all the water in step 1; time
will tell. Other than that, it's a very nice colorful and flavorful dish. The
tomatoes and pepper give it a slightly south-western flavor.



Easy Hamburger Corn Casserole  #50779

This can be a do ahead casserole just pour the ingredients into a casserole
dish before you do the final 20 minute simmer and then pop it into a 350F oven
25-30 minutes before serving - put some buttered crumbs on top - I like to
serve it over noodles or add cooked macaroni to it for the final simmer - I
treat this as a good basic casserole that is tasty as is or even better with
your creative touch

2 	lbs lean ground beef
	spray vegetable oil
1 1/2 	cups onions, chopped
5 	cloves garlic, chopped (or less)
1 	tablespoon chili powder (or more)
1 	teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
2 (14 	ounce) cans kernel corn or 4 ears fresh corn, cooked
1 (28 	ounce) can diced tomatoes (Ilike to use Italian flavored)
1 	cup beef broth
2 	tablespoons cornstarch

1. Brown the beef on the sprayed pan, add onions, garlic, chile powder&
   crushed red pepper flakes.
2. Stir until onions are softened and the burger is browned.
3. Mix cornstarch with the beef broth add to the pan.
4. Add tomatoes mix well& simmer until thickened add corn mix and continue
   simmering for approz 20 minutes Season with salt& pepper.


Peppered Corn Fritters  #34922

1 1/4 	cups fresh corn or frozen corn, thawed
1 	cup finely chopped red bell peppers
1 	cup finely chopped green onions
1 1/4 	cups all-purpose flour
2 	teaspoons baking powder
1 	teaspoon cumin
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1 	cup milk
2-4 	tablespoons vegetable oil

1. In a bowl, combine the corn, red pepper and onions.
2. Combine the flour, baking powder, cumin, salt, and pepper; stir into corn
   mixture.
3. Gradually add milk, stirring until blended.
4. In a skillet over medium heat, heat 2 tablespoons of oil.
5. Drop batter by 1/4 cupfuls into skillet.
6. Cook for 2 minutes on each side or until golden brown.
7. Repeat with remaining batter, adding more oil as needed.

Notes: It might be possible to add an egg to the batter to make the fritters
more fluffy.


Vindaloo Paste

2 Tbl grated fresh ginger
4 cloves garlic, chopped
3 red chillies, chopped
2 teaspoons ground turmeric
2 teaspoons gound cardomom
4 whole cloves
6 peppercorns
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 Tblspoon ground coriander
1 Tblspoon cumin seeds
half cup of lemon juice



Zesty Salsa for Canning  #97428

A friend cans this every year and any chance I get, I beg borrow or steal
some from her! It's the best salsa I have ever had. Especially good with lime
tortilla chips or on taco salad (recipe #102234).

10 	cups roughly chopped tomatoes
5 	cups chopped and seeded bell peppers
5 	cups chopped onions
2 1/2 	cups hot peppers, chopped,seeded
1 1/4 	cups cider vinegar
3 	cloves garlic, minced
2 	tablespoons cilantro, minced
3 	teaspoons salt
1 (6 ounce) can tomato paste

1. Combine all ingredients except tomato paste in large sauce pot.
2. Simmer until desired thickness.
3. Stir in tomato paste.
4. Ladle hot salsa into hot jars leaving 1/4 inch head-space.
5. Process 15 minutes in a hot water bath.
6. Note: use more hot peppers for a very hot salsa or less for mild.
7. It depends on how hot your peppers are and how hot you like your salsa.
8. I never get close to 2 1/2 cups for our mild salsa.

Notes: Pretty good - completely disregard measuring the hot peppers. It will
be way too dependent on the hotness of the peppers and your own preference.
For my first batch I could tell that the jalapenos I had grown were pretty
hot, so I only used 3. The salsa is mild, but has a pleasant tanginess to it.
For the next batch I'll probably double the number of jalapenos to 6, or may
throw in a habanero!
Also, the hotness of the salsa seems to be at its peak when fresh and before
processing. Of course, the next time I can salsa and take this into account
I'll probably make a batch of nuclear-rated salsa that hardly anybody can eat,
but that seems to be the way things go. :-)



Simple Mexican Salsa  #38978

Just like the salsa I enjoyed in a small restaurant in downtown Cancun - took
me a while to get it just right!

4   ripe   fresh tomatoes (RIPE tastes better!)
1   onion
1   lime
1   ripe jalapeno pepper (2 if you like it HOT!)
1   bunch fresh cilantro
1/2 teaspoon salt

1. Chop up the tomatoes to your preferred size.
2. Dice the onion (if it is a large onion you may only want to use half).
3. Chop up the cilantro and the pepper.
4. Put it all into a bowl and squeeze all of the juice from the lime on top.
5. Add a bit of salt, stir.
7. enjoy!



Squash Casserole  #14522

This is a wonderful side dish. Even if you think you don't like squash you
will like this. Good to take to a pot luck dinner!

2 	lbs yellow squash, diced
1 	medium onion, chopped
2 	large carrots, chopped fine
1 (8 	ounce) container sour cream
1 	can mushroom soup, undiluted
1 	package Pepperidge Farm herb dressing

1. Line 8x8 baking dish with half of Pepperidge Farm dressing.
2. Cook squash, carrots and onion in just enough water to cover until tender.
3. Drain well.
4. Mix sour cream and soup and add drained veggies.
5. Pour on top of dressing and top with more dressing.
6. Bake at 350 degrees for 1/2 hour.


Squash Casserole  #26557

This is different from your usual squash recipe.A friend of mine brought it
to a pot luck dinner 15 years ago and it has been a family favorite since
then.

1 	medium bell pepper, cut in 1/2 in cubes
1/4 	cup margarine
1 	medium onion, diced
2 	medium zucchini or 4 small yellow squash
1 (16 	ounce) can tomatoes
4 	slices bread, toasted and cut in small cubes
1 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1/4 	teaspoon garlic salt
1/2 	teaspoon oregano
	parmesan cheese

1. Saute onions&bell pepper in margarine for 5 minutes,add squash that has
   been sliced and cubed.
2. Saute 5 min more,add tomatoes, (break up whole tomatoes) cook 5 more
   minutes.
3. Add bread cubes and seasonings.
4. Put in 2 quart casserole,sprinkle top with parmesan cheese.
5. Bake at 350 for 30 to 40 minutes.



Cucumber Relish  #11147

This is a sweet pickle relish similiar to what you can buy in the grocery
store. (Better, I think) Can be used for Hot Dogs, Potato salad or any recipe
calling for Sweet relish or salad cubes. Easy to make

4 	cups ground unpeeled cucumbers (about 4)
1 	cup ground green peppers (about 2)
1/2 	cup ground red peppers (about 1)
1 	tablespoon celery seeds
3 	cups ground onions
3 	cups finely diced celery
1/4 	cup salt
3 1/2 	cups sugar
2 	cups white vinegar
1 	tablespoon mustard seeds

1. Use coarse blade on grinder, (I used food processor) combine all
   vegetables in large bowl.
2. Sprinkle with salt.
3. Cover with cold water, let stand 4 hours.
4. Drain thoroughly in colander, press out all excess liquid.
5. Combine sugar, vinegar, celery seed & mustard seed.
6. Bring to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved.
7. Stir in drained vegetables, simmer 10 minutes.
8. Pack into jars to within 1/2 inch of the top.
9. Put on cap, screw band firmly tight.
10. Process in boiling water bath 10 minutes.
11. Yield 5-6 pints.


Cucumber Salsa  #20980

This is a great thing to take to parties! Everywhere I take it, people want
the reciepe. It is also nice for people who like a salsa type dip, but do not
like the heat.

6 	cucumbers, chopped
4 	tomatoes, chopped
1 	red onion, chopped
1 	package dry ranch dressing mix
1/4 	cup vinegar
1/4 	teaspoon sugar (more or less depending on how sweet you want it)

1. Put all the chopped veggie in a big bowl.
2. In a smaller bowl, whisk the dressing and sugar with the vinegar.
3. Pour over veggies, and stir well.
4. Refrigerate overnight.
5. Serve with tortilla chips.


Pickled Jalapenos  #10350

A wonderful way to use those summer fresh peppers.

In each jar:
1 	teaspoon olive oil
1 	teaspoon oregano leaves
2 	cloves garlic
	sliced carrots (optional)
	sliced onions, separated into rings (optional)
Brine
1 1/2 	quarts water
2 	cups white vinegar
1/2 	cup pickling salt

4 pints

1. In clean sterilized jars, place the olive oil, oregano, garlic and carrots
   and onions (optional).
2. Mix the brine ingredients and bring to a boil.
3. Pack your peppers (and other vegetables) in jars to 3/4 full (peppers will
   expand).
4. Pour boiling brine over the peppers within 1/2" from the top.
5. Seal by hot water bath for 20 minutes.
6. Let jars sit for 3 weeks for the best flavor.

Note: You may be able to get away with processing the peppers for less time;
10 mins may be enough. I don't really think anything is going to be able to
attack jalapeno peppers in brine, but I guess you never know.
This is a good pickled pepper recipe. The oregano and garlic add a nice zip
to the flavor. These are way better than store-bought sliced jalapenos in
jars!


Pickled Jalapeno Peppers  #108201

These are excellent. Canned tons of them and everyone keeps grabbing jars and
running. Super hot!!!!

2 	quarts jalapeno peppers
2 	cups white wine vinegar
2 	cups water
1/2 	teaspoon pickling salt or pickling spices
4 	cloves garlic

1. Slice peppers or leave them whole.
2. (To prevent bursting, cut two small slits in whole peppers.).
3. Pack peppers tightly into clean, hot jars.
4. Combine vinegar and water; heat to a simmer.
5. Do not boil.
6. Pour hot vinegar over peppers, leaving 1/2 inch headspace.
7. Add pickling salt and a clove of garlic to each jar then seal.
8. Process in boiling water bath for 10 minutes.

Notes: This brine has more vinegar in it than the other recipe. I don't know
if that is a factor or not... The other one has been rated a 5-star recipe, so
maybe that should be a factor.


Dill Pickle Relish  #124054

A nice addition to burgers or hot dogs. And very pretty for gift giving. You
could substitute green bell peppers for the red ones, but it wouldn't be as
attractive. You can also substitute zucchini for part of the cucumbers if
desired.

6 	cups cucumbers, chopped
2 	cups red bell peppers, chopped
2 	cups onions, chopped
1 	cup celery, chopped
2/3 	cup salt
6 	cups water
4 	cups cider vinegar
1 	cup sugar (optional)
2 	tablespoons mustard seeds
1 	teaspoon celery seeds
3 	garlic cloves, minced
2 	chili peppers, minced
1/2 	cup dill weed, chopped

5 pints

1. Combine cucumber, peppers, onion and celery with salt and water. Let sit 3
   hours. Drain and rinse thoroughly with cold water and drain well again.
2. Bring vinegar, sugar, and remaining ingredients to a boil in a large pan,
   stirring to dissolve sugar. Add drained, chopped vegetables, and return to
   boil. Reduce to simmer and continue until relish reaches desired
   consistency - about 15 minutes.
3. Ladle into hot pint jars, leaving 1/2 inch headspace. Close with hot
   2-piece caps, and process in boiling water bath for 15 minutes.
4. Store in cool dry place.


Corn Bread Loaf  #47189

I made a few minor changes to the original recipe printed in Bon Appetit
(December 1992). Original recipe was printed as a request for corn bread
served in Le Bus resturant.

1 1/2 	cups flour
1 1/4 	cups yellow cornmeal
3/4 	cup sugar
1/2 	teaspoon baking powder
1/2 	teaspoon baking soda
1/2 	teaspoon salt
2 	eggs
1/2 	cup melted margarine or corn oil
1 	cup buttermilk or sour milk
1 	cup frozen corn kernels, thawed

1. Preheat oven to 350-degrees F.
2. Spray 9 x 5-inch loaf pan with cooking spray and dust with corn meal.
3. Mix first six ingredients (flour- salt) in large bowl.
4. Mix eggs, melted margarine/oil, milk in small bowl.
5. Add egg mixture and corn to dry ingredients.
6. Stir until combined.
7. Pour batter into pan.
8. Bake for 1 hour.

Notes: One review indicated that cutting the sugar in half still produced a
sweet bread - try the given recipe first but keep this in mind.


Corn Macque Choux (Fried Corn)  #49125

I had no idea this dish even had a name until I grew up. We had it any time
we had fried chicken, which was often. I love this dish - to me it is comfort
food.

1 	onion, diced
1 	green bell pepper, diced
1 	red bell pepper, diced
1 	lb corn kernels (cut from the cob or frozen and thawed)
3 	tablespoons unsalted butter
	kosher salt
	fresh ground black pepper
1 	pinch cayenne

1. In the skillet, heat the butter over medium low heat until melted.
2. Add the onion and saute until wilted but not brown.
3. Add the bell peppers and the corn and stir to coat everything with butter,
   sprinkle with some salt, pepper, and cayenne, and continue cooking over
   med-low heat, stirring frequently, until all liquid (if any) completely
   evaporates, the vegetables start to take on a slight caramalization and the
   whole room smells really, really good. (This should take about 20 minutes).
4. Taste, adjust the seasonings if you need to, and serve.
5. Note: I say to use a cast iron skillet because, as with cornbread, I
   believe this dish suffers in flavor if it is not cooked in one. However,
   if you don't have one, you can use another skillet- just know that it would
   be much better cooked in a cast iron skillet.


Mexican Corn Salad  #68289

Nice addition to a Mexican meal.

3 	tablespoons butter
2 	cups corn kernels, cooked
1 	red bell pepper, diced
1 	cup chopped zucchini
2 	green onions, chopped
1 	jalapeno pepper, seeded and minced
1/2 	cup salsa
2 	tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro

1. In a heavy large skillet, melt the butter over medium-high heat.
2. Add the corn, bell pepper, zucchini, green onions and jalapeno pepper.
3. Saute until vegetables are tender, about 6 minutes.
4. Remove from heat and refrigerate vegetables until chilled.
5. Add salsa and chopped cilantro to vegetable mixture.
6. Stir and season with salt and pepper to taste.

Notes: May be able to serve this warm.


Preserved Basil  #69949

This came about when I had more fresh basil in my garden than I knew what to
do with it. I posted a question to the Cooking Q&A board and with the help of
Jenny Sanders, this recipe came about.

2 	cups fresh basil leaves, packed
1/2 	cup olive oil

1. Puree two cups of fresh packed basil leaves in the food processor.
2. Slowly add one half cup olive oil until the mixture has the consistency of
   a smooth paste.
3. Pour the puree into plastic ice cube trays.
4. It's best to have a special tray just for herbs, because the remaining
   flavor will then get into your ice cubes.
5. Cover with plastic wrap, and freeze until solid.
6. Store cubes, double-bagged, in the freezer and add to soups and sauces for
   an instant flavor boost.
7. Herbal pastes and pestos are highly concentrated, so use sparingly.



Zucchini-Pepper Relish  #71659

Too much zucchini? Try this wonderful relish and enjoy your zucchini year
round. It is really good on hotdogs or hamburgers. The yield is a guess, as I
always at least double this recipe.

3 	lbs zucchini, seeded if necessary
3 	onions, chopped
2 	sweet red peppers, chopped
1/4 	cup pickling salt
2 1/2 	cups sugar
1 1/2 	cups white vinegar
1 1/2 	teaspoons dry mustard
1 	teaspoon celery seeds
1/4 	teaspoon black pepper
1/2 	teaspoon turmeric
1 	tablespoon water
2 	teaspoons cornstarch

1. In a food processor, finely chop zucchini, using an on/off motion.
2. Put zucchini in a large bowl.
3. Add chopped onion and pepper to bowl
4. Sprinkle everything with salt.
5. Stir to blend.
6. Let stand 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
7. Drain off liquid, rinse with cold water, drain again
8. In a large heavy saucepan, combine sugar, vinegar, dry mustard, celery seed,
   pepper, and turmeric.
9. Bring to a boil, stirring.
10. Add the drained zucchini mixture; bring to a boil
11. Simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes, or until
   thickened and zucchini mixture is tender.
12. Combine water and cornstarch; add to zucchini mixture
13. Cook, stirring, for 5 minutes, or until clear and thickened.
14. Seal in sterilized bottles and process in a water bath for 5 minutes.



Preserving Pesto

Make any pesto recipe, but leave out the parmesan cheese, then freeze.
To use, thaw, add cheese, and there you go!


Basil Pesto

2 cups loosely packed fresh basil leaves, NO stems
2 garlic cloves (or to taste), coarsely chopped
1/4 cup pine nuts (pignolia)
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese AND 2 tablespoons grated Romano cheese
  (or 4 tablespoons of either one)
4 to 6 tablespoons good quality olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Put basil, garlic and pine nuts in blender or food processor. blend or
process a few seconds, until ingredients are chopped. Add cheese and HALF the
olive oil; blend again. Scrape sides of container. Turn speed to low and
trickle in remaining olive oil. by hand, stir in salt and pepper to taste.



TOMATO SOUP

Do not thicken with flour or other thickeners before canning. You may do so
after opening, if desired.

4 quarts chopped peeled tomatoes
3 1/2 cups onions
2 1/2 cups celery
2 cups chopped sweet red peppers
1 cup sliced carrots
7 bay leaves
1 Tbsp. whole cloves
1 clove garlic
1 cup brown sugar
2 tsp. canning salt

Combine all vegetables and seasonings (except sugar and salt). Cook until soft.

Press through food mill.
Add sugar and salt, cook over medium heat for 15 minutes.
Ladle hot soup into hot pint jars. Leave 1 inch headspace.
Process in pressure canner for 35 minutes at 11 lb. pressure dial gauge, 10
lb. weighted gauge.

Makes about 4 pints


Hot Sauce

# The first step in the process is blanching the peppers. To do this, bring
one cup of white vinegar to a boil in a saucepan. Then add the peppers for two
or three minutes. A basic green sauce requires 15 serrano chiles and three
jalapeno peppers, but other peppers can be substituted to create different
tastes.

# After blanching, strain the vinegar from the peppers by pouring it into a
glass measuring cup. Be careful not to splash the vinegar as it is both
temperature-hot and spicy-hot.

# Peppers can be roasted prior to blanching for added flavor. Hold them over
an open flame or put into a nonstick frying pan. Heat until the skin is
slightly blistered, then proceed with blanching.

# Most recipes recommend using a food processor, but this is one for the
blender.

# After separating the peppers and vinegar, put 1/4 cup of the vinegar in the
blender along with the blanched peppers, a couple of cloves of minced garlic
and two tablespoons of ground cumin. These measurements can be varied
according to taste.

# The more of the seeds added, the hotter the sauce will be.

# Blend the mixture until it is liquefied, adding more vinegar if necessary.
Keep working with it until a desirable consistency is reached. Now pour the
sauce into a bottle using a funnel. Any sealing glass bottle will work, and
smaller hot sauce bottles are available at home stores. Be sure to label it.
Making the labels can be a fun and creative thing to do, and the sauces make
great gifts.

# Make buffalo-chicken-wing sauce by mixing five tablespoons of hot sauce
with four tablespoons of butter and one tablespoon of vinegar.


Belizean Style Habanero Sauce Recipe

* 1 small onion -- chopped
* 2 cloves garlic -- chopped
* 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
* 1 cup carrots -- chopped
* 2 cups water
* 4 Scotchbonnet Habanero peppers, seeded and fine chopped
* 3 tablespoons fresh lime juice
* 3 tablespoons white vinegar
* 1 teaspoon salt

Saute onion in oil until soft. Add carrots and water. Bring to boil, reduce
heat and simmer until the carrots are soft. Remove from heat . Add
chilies,lime juice and salt to the carrot mixture. Place in processor and
puree until smooth.Pour into sterilized jars and seal.


Homemade Barbeque Sauce

3/4 cup Toasted Sesame Seed Oil
6 Finely chopped onions
1 Tablespoon Salt
1 Tablespoon Pepper
1 1/2 Tablepoons Chili Powder
12 cups (96 oz.) Ketchup
9 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cup Worcestershire Sauce
3 cups Cider Vinegar
3 cups Water

Saute onions in oil until translucent. Add salt, pepper, and chili powder.
Turn heat up to medium, add rest of ingredients. Bring to boil, reduce heat
and simmer for 10 mins.

Process in water bath for 30 mins.

Makes 12 pints.


Another Homemade Barbeque Sauce Recipe

32 ounces ketchup
32 ounces water
3/4 cup sugar
Juice of 1 lemon
More or less to taste
1-1/2 teaspoon celery seed
1-1/2 ground red pepper
1 clove garlic minced, More or less to taste
1-1/2 onions minced, More or less to taste

Combine all ingredients and simmer until onions are done.

This can be used immediately or canned. Pour the hot sauce (180°F or greater)
into hot, clean pint or quart canning jars. Place hot lids and seals onto the
jars and place in a hot water bath for 10 minutes (for half pints or pints) or
20 minutes (for quarts).



Olive Garden Hot Artichoke Spinach Dip

1 cup diced artichoke hearts (frozen or canned, not marinated)
1/2 cup frozen chopped spinach, thawed
8 oz. cream cheese
1/2 cup grated parmesan cheese
1/2 tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
1/4 tsp. salt
1/8 tsp. garlic powder
dash ground pepper

1. Put artichoke hearts and spinach in microwave-safe bowl, cover with plastic
wrap (be sure to vent w/ slit in plastic wrap, etc.). Microwave on high for 4
minutes. Stir and microwave again for 2-3 minutes or until artichoke hearts
are tender.
2. Heat cream cheese in small bowl in the microwave (1 min on high).
3. Add spinach/artichoke mixture to cream cheese, stir well.
4. Add remaining ingredients and stir. Serve with crackers, chips, bread, etc.



Carrot Pancakes (just like Potato Pancakes)  Recipe #34191

I ate these growing up. I don't know if my Mom happened to be out of potatoes
one day and just tried carrots or if she got them out of a book. She doesn't
remember, but I seem to remember her just substituting the carrots because we
were out of potatoes. They're much better when you keep the carrots and onion
almost to equal amounts

8-10 	raw carrots, shredded
1 	large vidalia onions, sliced
2 	large eggs
1/4 	cup flour
	salt, pepper
	garlic powder (optional)

1. Peel, and shred carrots into large bowl.
2. Add 1 large thinly sliced vidalia onion.
3. Add and mix in 2 large eggs, 1/4 cup flour.
4. Add salt, pepper.
5. Mix well.
6. Drop by 2 tbls into pan with hot oil/oleo mixture, flatten to form a pancake.
7. Brown on medium hit, about 5 minutes on each side.



Leftover Mashed Potato Pancakes  Recipe #9054

This recipe was recently submitted to a news group to which I belong. I think
it is very good and hope you like it, too. Preparation time in the kitchen is
just a few minutes. When the big meal is through, this is a tasty way to use
up the leftover mashed potatoes.

1-2 	egg
1/4 	cup flour
	salt
	pepper
	garlic
	onions (optional)
	chives (optional)
	cheese (optional)
	oil or Crisco
	sour cream or applesauce

Mix all ingredients into mashed potatoes - make sure the mix is not too thin.
Cook in hot pan with oil or Crisco (Crisco works best).
Brown on both sides and enjoy with sour cream or applesauce.




CHICKEN AND WHITE BEAN CHILI

1/4 cup olive oil
1 1/3 cups chopped onion
1 large green bell pepper, chopped
6 garlic cloves, chopped
2 1/4 pounds skinless boneless chicken thighs, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 1/2 tablespoons chili powder
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon dried oregano
2 15- to 16-ounce cans white beans, drained, juices reserved
2 15-ounce cans diced tomatoes in juice
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro


Heat oil in heavy large pot over medium-high heat. Add onion, bell pepper,
and garlic; sauté until vegetables begin to soften, about 5 minutes. Add
chicken; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Sauté until chicken is no longer pink
outside, about 5 minutes. Mix in chili powder, tomato paste, cumin, and
oregano. Add beans, 1 cup reserved bean juices, and canned tomatoes. Simmer
until chicken is cooked through and chili is thickened, about 25 minutes. If
chili is too thick, add more bean juices by tablespoonfuls to thin. Season
chili to taste with salt and pepper. Mix in cilantro and serve.

Notes: This is an excellent chili variant. It has a nice SouthWest flavor due
to the cumin and oregano, and the various ingredients (chicken, beans,
tomatoes, etc.) all balance very well together. For personalization of
individual servings, you could provide some shredded chedder, diced onion,
diced jalapeno, etc. at the table.


Green Curry Chicken Wings

1/3   	cup finely chopped onion
14 	chicken wings (about 3 pounds total)
3/4 	cup purchased coconut milk
3 	tablespoons fish sauce
2 	to 3 tablespoons green curry paste
2 	tablespoons cornstarch
2 	tablespoons cold water
1/4 	cup shredded fresh basil leaves

1. Place onion in a 3-1/2- or 4-quart slow cooker. Use a sharp knife to
   carefully cut chicken wings into three portions; discard wing tips. Place
   wing pieces over onions in cooker. Stir together the coconut milk, fish
   sauce, and curry paste. Pour over chicken wings.

2.Cover and cook on low-heat setting for 5 to 6 hours or on high-heat setting
  for 2-1/2 to 3 hours. Remove chicken from cooker with a slotted spoon; cover
  and set aside. Skim fat from cooking liquid. In a medium saucepan stir
  together the cornstarch and water; stir in the cooking liquid. Cook and stir
  over medium heat until thickened and bubbly. Cook and stir 2 minutes more.
  Stir in basil. Serve over wings. Makes 12 appetizer servings.


CRANBERRY WALNUT UPSIDE DOWN CAKE

For topping
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 3/4 cups fresh or frozen cranberries (7 oz; do not thaw if frozen)
3/4 cup coarsely chopped walnuts (3 oz), toasted

For cake
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk

Make topping:
Melt butter in skillet over moderate heat, then swirl to coat bottom and side
of skillet and stir in brown sugar. Simmer, stirring, until sugar is
dissolved, 1 to 2 minutes, then sprinkle cranberries and walnuts evenly over
butter mixture and remove from heat.

Make cake:
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350°F.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Beat together
butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until
light and fluffy, 4 to 6 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after
each addition. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture
alternately in batches with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour
mixture and mixing until just combined. (Do not overmix.)

Bake cake:
Heat topping in skillet over moderately high heat until it starts to bubble,
then gently spoon batter over topping and spread evenly. Quickly transfer to
oven; bake until cake is golden brown and a wooden skewer comes out clean, 25
to 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around
inside edge of pan, then invert a serving plate over pan and invert cake onto
plate. Cool completely on plate on rack, 1 hour. Serve cake at room
temperature.


Crockpot Cassoulet  Recipe #33819

1 	lb dry navy beans, rinsed
4 	cups water
4 	chicken breast halves, skinned,boned,and cut into 1 inch pieces
8 	ounces cooked ham, cut into 1 inch pieces
3 	large carrots, sliced
2 	medium onions, coarsely chopped
2 	celery ribs, sliced
1/4 	cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon dry mustard
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1 (8 	ounce) can tomato sauce
2 	tablespoons molasses

1. In slow cooker, soak beans overnight in 4 cups water.
2. Cover; cook on HIGH for 3 hours.
3. Add remaining ingredients; mix well.
4. Cover; cook on HIGH for an additional 3 to 4 hours or until beans are tender.


Crockpot Chicken Paprikash

1 1/2  	cups   water
4-5 	lbs chicken pieces
1 	cup canned tomatoes
1 	green pepper, chopped
1 	small onion, sliced
2 	tablespoons paprika
1 	clove garlic, minced
1 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	teaspoon pepper
1/4 	teaspoon oregano
1/4 	cup all-purpose flour
1 	cup sour cream

1. Put the water, chicken, tomatoes, green pepper, onion, paprika, garlic,
   salt, pepper and oregano into the crockpot.
2. Stir to blend.
3. Cover the pot and cook on low for 9 to 10 hours until chicken is tender.
4. Remove chicken pieces from the crockpot and skim fat from the remaining
   sauce.
5. Remove 1/4 cup liquid from the crockpot and allow to cool a bit.
6. Blend flour with the 1/4 cup cooled juices and return the flour mixture to
   the liquid in the crockpot.
7. Mix well and stir until thickened.
8. Blend in sour cream.
9. Return chicken to the pot and allow to heat through, but do not boil.
10. Serve on cooked noodles if desired.

Notes: May want to substitute chicken broth for water, or reduce water to 1/2 cup.
It does not take 10 hours to cook chicken parts in a crock pot. The chicken and 
vegetables will also produce a good bit of juices on their own. You want to balance 
the amount of water with how much paprikash sauce you want. Thickening could also be
done with corn starch, though it needs to come back to a boil to thicken.


Masala Chai (indian spiced tea)

 2  	 cups   water
3-5 	cloves
1 	cinnamon stick, crushed
2-3 	cardamom pods, crushed
1/4 	cup sugar or sucanat
1 	cup milk
2 	tablespoons black tea leaves

1. put the water on the stove and add spices, bring to boil.
2. cover and let simmer for few minutes.
3. add sugar or sucanat (whole ground sugar cane--like jaggery) and milk, stir.
4. bring back to just barely boiling (watch pot, milk will bubble over).
5. add tea leaves, cover pot, remove from heat.
6. steep for 5 minutes.
7. pour through filter to remove spices and tea leaves.


Saag Chicken

3  	 lbs   chicken pieces, skinned and cubed
5 	cloves garlic, minced
2 	large onions, minced or extremely finely chopped
1 (400 g) can crushed tomatoes
1 	inch ginger, minced
4 	tablespoons milk
48 	ounces spinach, washed & chopped
2 	tablespoons butter
1/2 	teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 	teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 	teaspoon turmeric powder
2 	big cardamom pods
2 	whole cloves
7 	tablespoons oil
1 	teaspoon garam masala
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/4 	cup water
1 	tablespoon water

1. Fry the chicken in 4 tbs oil for around 3-4 minutes until lightly browned
   and set aside.
2. Put the spinach in a pot, add 1/4C water.
3. Bring to the boil and remove from heat.
4. When cool, grind very well (almost to a paste) in blender and set aside.
5. Heat the remaining oil in a pan and add ginger, garlic and onions.
6. Fry until lightly brown.
7. Add tomatoes, salt, cayenne pepper, ground coriander, turmeric, cloves and
   cardamom.
8. Sprinkle with 1 tbs water.
9. Cook for 10 minutes on a low heat.
10. Add chicken and milk to the pan.
11. Simmer until the chicken is tender (about 10 minutes).
12. Add spinach and garam masala to the pan.
13. Cook until spinach starts sticking to the pan (about 15 minutes).
14. Remove from heat, add butter and cover until ready to serve with rice.



Abm Spinach Bread  Recipe #19618

1/2 	cup water
1 	cup boiled or steamed spinach
3 	tablespoons water
1 1/2 	cups bread flour
1/2 	cup whole-wheat flour
2 	teaspoons softened butter
1 	tablespoon sugar
2 	teaspoons nonfat dry milk solids
1 	teaspoon salt
1 1/4 	teaspoons yeast

1. Combine the spinach (along with a minimal amount of the cooking liquid if
   you have it) with 1/2 cup water.
2. Combine stirring and tearing with your favorite pointed kitchen implements
   until the spinach is fairly well shredded and the water is throughly green.
3. This will produce a tacky texture and a marbled inner appearance.
4. For a greener bread, use a food processor and puree into a shake instead.
5. Combine the remaining ingredients in the bread pan, and set to bake on
   white cycle.
6. Makes One 1 1/2-pound loaf.



GINGER-GARLIC HUMMUS

1 garlic clove, peeled
1 1-inch-long piece peeled fresh ginger
2 cups garbanzo beans (chickpeas; from two 15-ounce cans), drained, 3 tablespoons liquid reserved
1/4 cup cashew butter
3 tablespoons unseasoned rice vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon chili-garlic sauce*
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground star anise
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
1 green onion, chopped
2 whole star anise (optional)

Using on/off turns, mince garlic and ginger in processor. Add beans, reserved
bean liquid, cashew butter, rice vinegar, soy sauce, chili-garlic sauce, and
ground star anise. Process mixture to coarse puree. Add cilantro and green
onion; process to combine. Transfer to bowl; garnish with whole star anise, if
desired.


IRISH SODA BREAD
3 c. flour
2/3 c. sugar
1 T. (yes, tablespoon) baking powder
1 tsp. baking soda
1 tsp. salt
1 cup raisins or currants (golden raisins are good)
2 eggs, beaten
1 c. buttermilk or sour milk
2 T. veg. oil

Sift dry ingred. together.  Stir in raisins or
currants.  In a large bowl, combine remaining ingred.
and then stir in the sifted dry ingred.  Mix just
until flour is moistened.  Turn batter into a greased
loaf pan (I use a 2 1/2-qt. casserole dish, and it's
just the right size).  Bake at 350 for a little over
an hour OR bake at 375 for about 50 min.  Use the
toothpick test to make sure loaf is baked thoroughly
in the middle.  Remove bread from pan immediately.
-- Recipe from Sister M. Hilary of St. Scholastic High School in Chicago



White Pizza with Tomatoes, Onions and Garlic
Provided by FoodFit

3/4 cup warm water
1 tablespoon milk
4 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon olive oil, plus extra
2 tablespoons olive oil
4 cloves garlic, chopped
1 cup fresh diced tomatoes
4 ounces grated mozzarella cheese
1 small yellow onion, sliced thinly into rings
1 teaspoon dried oregano or chopped, fresh herbs
salt to taste
freshly ground black pepper
Roasted Garlic Vinaigrette (optional)

1. For the pizza dough:
2. Mix the water, milk and yeast together in a large bowl and stir with a
   wooden spoon.
3. Add the flour, salt and olive oil. Mix together with a wooden spoon until
   the dough is too thick and sticky to stir.
4. Spread a little flour on a work surface and place the dough on top of the
   flour. Knead the dough by pulling the dough from the sides and folding it
   in the middle. Keep kneading until the dough becomes a smooth ball. If it
   sticks to the table or to your hands, add a little more flour.
5. Rub a clean bowl with the olive oil and put the dough in it. Cover the
   bowl with a towel and put it in a warm place. Let the dough rise for about
   1 1/2 hours, or until doubled in volume.
6. Punch the raised dough down with your fist. Turn the dough over, form it
   into a ball again, cover, and let rise for another hour.
7. Heat the oven to 450Â°F. Roll out the dough with a rolling pin or use your
   hands to pat the dough into a circle about 12" to 14" across and 1/4"-thick.
   Place the dough on an oiled baking sheet.
8. For the topping:
9. Sprinkle the garlic and spread the olive oil over the rolled dough, then
   sprinkle the tomatoes. Sprinkle the mozzarella cheese, leaving the edge of
   the pizza free. Place the onions on top of the cheese. If desired, drizzle
   a little Roasted Garlic Vinaigrette on top of the pizza for added flavor.
10. Bake until nicely browned and crispy, about 15 minutes. Season with salt
   and pepper. Cut the pizza into 8 slices.



Tangy BBQ sauce

1 cup ketchup
½ cup apple cider vinegar
¼ cup dark brown sugar
2 tbsp honey
¾ tsp garlic powder (or 1 clove garlic)
½ tsp paprika
½ tsp salt
¼ tsp ground black pepper

Combine all ingredients and whisk together in a medium bowl.  Layer sauce
with meat in a slow cooker, if making ribs as described above. If you are not
going to use this in a slow cooker recipe, pour it into a medium saucepan and
cook it for about 15 minutes on the stove over medium heat, until bubbling,
which will help the flavors to blend together.




40 Cloves and a Chicken
Recipe courtesy Alton Brown

1 whole chicken (broiler/fryer) cut into 8 pieces
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons olive oil
10 sprigs fresh thyme
40 peeled cloves garlic
Salt and pepper

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

Season chicken with salt and pepper. Toss with a 2 tablespoons olive oil and
brown on both sides in a wide fry pan or skillet over high heat. Remove from
heat, add oil, thyme, and garlic cloves. Cover and bake for 1 1/2 hours.

Remove chicken from the oven, let rest for 5 to 10 minutes, carve, and serve.

Notes: It's good but you'll still want the time it takes to peel 40 cloves of garlic back...


Colcannon

3-4  	 medium   potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters
2 	tablespoons milk or light cream
1/4 	teaspoon salt
1/8 	teaspoon pepper
2 	cups chopped cabbage
2 	tablespoons butter or margarine
1/4 	cup chopped onions
2 	tablespoons butter (for frying)

   1. Cook potatoes in boiling water till tender; drain, reserving water.
   2. Place in a large bowl.
   3. Mash with hand masher till well-mashed.
   4. (I find the electric mixer makes it too gooey).
   5. Add milk, salt and pepper and beat till fluffy.
   6. In the same saucepan as potatoes were cooked in, cook cabbage in
      reserved potato water for 6 to 8 minutes, until tender.
   7. Drain.
   8. Meanwhile, melt 2 tablespoons butter in frying pan and saute onion
      until tender.
   9. Add mashed potato and cooked cabbage to the onion.
  10. Heat throughly, stirring constantly.
  11. Place in a heated serving dish.
  12. Serve hot, topped with butter.

Notes: Yum! Irish comfort food? Yes, please!


Beef and Guiness Pie

3  	 tablespoons   tomato paste
3 1/2 	cups beef stock
4 	lbs beef chuck, cut into 1 inch cubes
1 1/2 	lbs white mushrooms
1 	large yellow onion, peeled and sliced
6 	cloves garlic, peeled and chopped
2 	tablespoons fresh thyme
2 	cups Guinness stout (or other dark stout)
1 1/2 	cups flour
	salt and pepper
1 	egg, for egg wash
1 	lb puff pastry, frozen or homemade

   1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
   2. Put tomato paste into a large bowl and whisk in stock until paste is
      dissolved.
   3. Add beef, mushrooms, onions, garlic, thyme and stout.
   4. Stir well.
   5. Sprinkle flour over beef mixture and season with salt and pepper.
   6. Stir well.
   7. Transfer to a deep 10 1/2 x 12 1/2 ovenproof baking dish and cover with
      foil.
   8. Bake stirring occasionally until meat is very tender- 3 1/2- 4 hours.
   9. Beat egg with 1 tsp water in a small bowl.
  10. Roll out puff pastry on a lightly floured surface to about 1/4 inch
      thick and 2 inches larger than the baking dish.
  11. Remove baking dish from oven, remove foil and drape pastry over dish.
  12. Brush with egg wash.
  13. Return dish to oven and bake until pastry is puffed and deep golden
      brown- about 40 minutes.

Notes: You may not need all of the beef broth when putting this together -
it's a lot of liquid (3 1/2 cups beef broth, 2 cups stout). Also, as you can
probably tell from the quantites of ingredients, this makes enough food to
feed a small army. Be prepared to freeze some of this or have a good-sized
dinner party. Goes VERY well with colcannon.
Freezes ok, but is better fresh out of the oven.



THAI-CURRIED GAME HENS

The delicious sauce has the complex, aromatic flavors of a Thai curry, but is
very easy to prepare, thanks to purchased curry paste (now sold in many
supermarkets). Look for fresh or frozen kaffir lime leaves — whose beautiful
fragrance is the signature of many Thai dishes — at Asian markets. If
unavailable, don't use dried ones; substitute grated lime peel instead. Goes
great with: Long-grain rice cooked with a few cardamom pods and grated lemon
peel and sautéed spinach. What to drink: Spätlese Riesling or Oregon Pinot
Noir.

3 tablespoons grapeseed oil or olive oil, divided
2 teaspoons (about) Thai red curry paste*
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 cup canned unsweetened coconut milk*
1 cup low-salt chicken broth
2 5.95-ounce cans straw mushrooms, drained
3 kaffir lime leaves or 2 teaspoons grated lime peel
2 tablespoons fish sauce (such as nam pla or nuoc nam)*
1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
6 cherry tomatoes, quartered
2 1 1/4-pound Cornish game hens, thawed if frozen, halved lengthwise,
  backbones removed
Fresh basil leaves
Small fresh or dried red chiles** (optional garnish)

Heat 1 tablespoon oil in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Add curry
paste and tomato paste and stir until fragrant, about 3 minutes. Add coconut
milk, broth, mushrooms, kaffir lime leaves, fish sauce, and brown sugar; bring
to simmer. Remove from heat. Add cherry tomatoes. Season sauce to taste with
salt and pepper.

Preheat oven to 350°F. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in large nonstick skillet over
high heat. Sprinkle hens with salt and pepper. Add hens to skillet and cook
until browned, about 4 minutes per side. Transfer hens to 13x9x2-inch glass or
ceramic baking dish. Pour sauce over. Bake uncovered until hens are cooked
through, about 35 minutes. Transfer hens to shallow serving bowl; tent with
foil. Skim fat from sauce. Pour sauce into large skillet; boil 5 minutes. Pour
sauce over hens. Garnish with basil and chiles, if desired.

*  Sold in the Asian foods section of many supermarkets and at Asian markets.

** Use any type of small fresh or dried chiles you find in the produce section
   or spice section of the supermarket.

Test-kitchen tip: Curry pastes vary in strength and spiciness from brand to
brand, so start by using one teaspoon if you prefer a milder sauce.



BAKED POTATO SOUP

This is the best potato soup ever.  The recipe is from
an ad for Carnation Evaporated Milk, changed slightly
by Faye.

1/4 c. (½ stick) butter
1/4 c. chopped onion
1/4 c. flour
1 can (14.5 oz.) chicken broth
1 5-oz. can evaporated milk
1 c. regular milk
2 large or 3 medium baking potatoes, microwaved till
done
1/4 tsp. salt and 1/4 tsp. pepper
Toppings: cooked crumbled bacon or bacon bits from a
jar, shredded cheddar cheese, sliced green onions

Melt butter in large saucepan over medium heat.  Add
onion; cook, stirring occasionally, for 1-2 min. or
until tender.  Stir in flour.  Gradually stir in broth
and the two milks.  Scoop potato pulp from potato,
reserving the skin; mash.  Add pulp to broth mixture.
Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until
mixture comes just to a boil.  Dice remaining potato
skin and potato(es); add to soup.  Heat through.
Spoon into bowls.  Sprinkle each with the toppings
that
appeal to you.  Makes about 4 servings.



CRANBERRY BARLEY PILAF

This recipe, from Crystal McKnew of Arnold, MD,
appeared in a local newspaper.  Crystal calls for ½
cup of toasted pecans to be added at the end, but we
have found that they do not stand up to the flavors of
the broth and cranberries and are not worth using.
Also, the original recipe uses chopped fresh
cranberries,
but dried cranberries are much easier, and just as
tasty.

1/4 c. (½ stick) butter or margarine
1 c. chopped onion
2 stalks celery, sliced quite thinly
1 large clove garlic, minced
1 c. barley
3 c. canned chicken broth
½ -3/4 c. craisins
1 T. honey

Heat butter or marg. in a saucepan [I, Mom, use a
frying pan] over medium heat until melted.  Add onion,
celery, garlic, and barley.  Cook until onion is
tender and the barley turns golden, stirring
constantly.  Add broth; bring to a boil.  Lower heat,
cover, and simmer for about 35 min.  Stir in the
craisins and honey; continue simmering, covered, about
10 more minutes.  Remove from heat.  Let stand,
covered, 5 min.  Makes about 8 servings.



HAM AND PINEAPPLE CASSEROLE

This recipe won third prize in some sort of a contest.
It was contributed by Marilou Robinson of Portland,
Oregon.  The casserole could easily be assembled ahead
of time and baked later.  It would be good served as a
brunch or light supper and would even be an easy but
delicious dish to take to a potluck.

½ c. (½ stick) margarine, softened
½ c. granulated sugar
5 large eggs
1 ½ c. cubed cooked ham
1 20-oz. can pineapple tidbits, drained
2 T. lemon juice
8-10 slices slightly stale white bread, cut into cubes

Coat a 13x9-inch casserole dish with nonstick spray.
Preheat oven to 325.  In a large bowl, cream together
marg. and sugar.  Beat in eggs, one at a time, until
well mixed.  Stir in ham, pineapple, and lemon juice.
Fold in bread cubes.  Pour mixture into casserole
dish, smoothing the top.  Bake, uncovered, for 30-35
min., or until custard is set and top is golden.
Serves 6 to 8.  Note: I've used whole wheat bread for
half the slices with good results.


BBQ Beans and Sausage Crock Pot Recipe #199155

A great meal! Quick and Simple! Crock pot!
by nannymelissa
6 servings
time to make 6¼ hours 10 min prep

2 (15 	ounce) cans great northern beans, rinsed and drained
2 (15 	ounce) cans black beans, rinsed and drained
1 	cup onions, chopped
1 	cup barbecue sauce
1/4 	cup packed brown sugar
1 	tablespoon ground mustard
1 	tablespoon worcestershire sauce
2 	teaspoons chili powder
1-1 1/4 	lb fully cooked smoked sausage

   1. Spray slow cooker with cooking spray.
   2. Mix all ingredients except sausage in crock pot.
   3. Place sausage on top of mixture.
   4. Cover and cook on low heat 5 to 6 hours.



Roasted Cauliflower with indian barbecue sauce
Makes 6 side-dish servings

1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 2-pound head of cauliflower, cut into 1-inch florets (about 8 cups)
4 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided
1 teaspoon minced peeled fresh ginger
1 garlic clove, pressed
1 1/4 cups ketchup
1/4 cup soy sauce
2 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 400°F. Toast cumin in small skillet over medium heat until
darker in color and beginning to smoke, about 1 1/2 minutes. Set aside.

Toss cauliflower and 2 tablespoons oil in large bowl. Transfer to medium
rimmed baking sheet. Roast until very tender, stirring occasionally, about 45
minutes.

Meanwhile, heat remaining 2 tablespoons oil in small saucepan over medium-low
heat. Add ginger and garlic; sauté until very fragrant, about 3 minutes. Add
ketchup, soy sauce, sugar, and toasted cumin. Bring to boil, whisking to
blend. Reduce heat to very low; simmer barbecue sauce 1 minute to blend
flavors, whisking constantly.

Remove cauliflower from oven; transfer to large bowl. Toss with enough
barbecue sauce to coat; season to taste with salt and pepper.

Notes: Very good! The sauce would be excellent on a number of items including
egg rolls, pita, corn chips, etc. You make about 4 times more sauce than
you'll use on the cauliflower, and I didn't bother tossing it in the sauce -
everybody was content to dip.



The Chewy (chocolate chip cookies)
Recipe courtesy Alton Brown

2 sticks unsalted butter
2 1/4 cups bread flour
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups brown sugar
1 egg
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips

Hardware:
Ice cream scooper (#20 disher, to be exact)
Parchment paper
Baking sheets
Mixer

Heat oven to 375 degrees F.

Melt the butter in a heavy-bottom medium saucepan over low heat. Sift
together the flour, salt, and baking soda and set aside.

Pour the melted butter in the mixer's work bowl. Add the sugar and brown
sugar. Cream the butter and sugars on medium speed. Add the egg, yolk, 2
tablespoons milk and vanilla extract and mix until well combined. Slowly
incorporate the flour mixture until thoroughly combined. Stir in the chocolate
chips.

Chill the dough, then scoop onto parchment-lined baking sheets, 6 cookies per
sheet. Bake for 14 minutes or until golden brown, checking the cookies after 5
minutes. Rotate the baking sheet for even browning. Cool completely and store
in an airtight container.



Curry Chicken

 4 boneless, skinned chicken breast halves
1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil
1 large onion, chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced
1/2 cup no-sodium bottled water
1 tablespoon curry powder
1/2 cup seedless golden raisins, packed
1/2 cup low-sugar apricot jam/preserves
2 cups nonfat plain low-sodium yogurt
Pepper to taste

Sauté the garlic and onion in the oil in a large nonstick pan. Wash chicken,
pat dry, and add to the sauté; cook until brown. Add the water, raisins, jam
or preserves, and curry powder, stirring as you do. Add the curry last. Simmer
uncovered for about 20 minutes (or less if it looks done before). Stir
frequently. You're done when the water is gone. Stir the yogurt into the
mixture in the pan. Simmer at low, stirring constantly until the yogurt has
heated; do not let it boil. Pepper to taste or reserve that for individual
servings. Serve hot on a bed of steamed basmati rice.



Split Pea Soup Recipe #5207

1 	ham bone (leftovers)
3 	cups dried whole green peas, split
4 	quarts water
1 	cup onions, chopped
1 	cup celery, chopped (with leaves)
2 	cups carrots, diced
1 	garlic clove, minced
1 	bay leaf
	salt and pepper

1. Simmer ham bone with peas in water for 2 hours.
2. Add remaining ingredients.
3. Continue to cook for about 1 hour.

Notes: I'm going to add some ham to the soup, because that seems like the
right thing to do.


Spicy Thai Noodles with Vegetables 
Recipe #64290

This makes an excellent side dish to go with main-dish stir fries or satays.
Add meat to make a main dish. You can locate lemongrass and fish sauce in most
Oriental markets.

4 servings
time to make 30 min 20 min prep
16 	ounces rice noodles or rice vermicelli
2 	cups mung bean sprouts
1 	cup slivered carrots
8 	scallions, cut into 1 inch pieces
1 	yellow bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1 	red bell pepper, seeded and chopped
1 	stalk lemongrass, white part only,sliced thin
10 	Thai chiles, stemmed and split (optional)
	cooking oil
1/4 	cup chopped peanuts
2 	tablespoons chopped cilantro (coriander)
For the Sauce
2/3 	cup creamy peanut butter
4 	tablespoons brown sugar
6 	tablespoons soy sauce
4 	tablespoons fish sauce
1/4 	teaspoon ground cayenne pepper
1 	teaspoon grated fresh ginger
2 	limes, juice of

 1. Cook noodles in boiling water until tender; drain.
 2. Mix ingredients for sauce in a bowl with a whisk until smooth; set aside.
 3. Heat 2 tablespoons cooking oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat
    (add more oil as necessary during cooking).
 4. Add lemongrass and Thai chiles and cook until fragrant.
 5. Add carrot, scallions, and bell peppers and cook until carrot starts to
    become crisp-tender.
 6. Add bean sprouts and cook 1-2 minutes more.
 7. Add drained noodles to the pan and pour sauce over noodles.
 8. Using two utensils, lift vegetables from bottom to integrate throughout
    noodles and mix well.
 9. Garnish with chopped cilantro and chopped peanuts and serve with hot
    chili sauce (sriracha), if desired.
10. Cooking tip: you may cut noodles into smaller pieces after cooking with
    kitchen shears to make them easier to work with.

NOTES: This is very good. I'd like to tweak the sauce a little bit, as we found
the peanut butter masked the flavor of most of the other ingredients. The next
time I make this I will reduce peanut butter to 1/2 cup, reduce brown sugar to
2 tablespoons, increase soy sauce to 7 tablespoons, increase fish sauce to 5
tablespoons, increase fresh grated ginger to 1 tablespoon (and may add some
diced ginger as well), drop the cayenne pepper in favor of 1/2 teaspoon asian
chili paste. I'm not sure how that's going to go together, but we found the
sauce on the sweet side. The stir fry itself is very good, though you do not
need an entire pound of rice noodles. You could also add  some other nice stir
fry ingredients like broccoli florets, mushrooms, snow peas, and especially
some tofu at the end.



Shrimp Summer Rolls With Peanut Dipping Sauce Recipe #108238

Fresh tasting summer rolls with a peanut dipping sauce. Can also be served with soy sauce.
by AlmaG
36 servings
time to make 30 min 15 min prep

4 	ounces dried thin chinese rice noodles (maifun)
12 	sheets rice paper
24 	medium cooked shrimp, cut in half lengthwise
1 	cup fresh mint leaves
1 	cup fresh cilantro leaves
1 	cup fresh basil leaves
1 	cup finely shredded lettuce or green cabbage
1 	cup mung bean sprouts
1 	cup matchstick-size strips seeded English cucumbers
1 	cup matchstick-size strips peeled carrots or jicama

2 	tablespoons crunchy peanut butter
4 	tablespoons hoisin sauce
2 	tablespoons water

 1. Place rice sticks in large bowl; add enough hot water to cover.
 2. Let stand until softened, about 15 minutes.
 3. Drain.
 4. Cut into 6-inch lengths; set aside.
 5. Fill bowl with warm water.
 6. Add 1 rice-paper sheet and turn until beginning to soften, about 30 seconds (sheet will still be stiff in a few spots).
 7. Remove from water; drain on kitchen towel.
 8. Lay four shrimp halves, and a pinch of other ingredients onto bottom third of sheet.
 9. Leave about a half an inch free on the sides.
10. Fold bottom of rice sheet over filling, then fold in ends and roll into tight roll.
11. Place roll, seam side down, on plate.
12. Repeat with remaining rice-paper sheets.
13. Cover with damp paper towel and plastic wrap; chill.
14. Cut each roll diagonally into thirds.
15. Sauce: Heat peanut butter and hoisin in microwave or over medium heat, stir together, add a few tablespoons of water to get the desired consistency.


Singapore Mai Fun Recipe #103584
From Cooking Light. Terrific recipe--tastes even better cold, the next day! 
The snow peas and mung sprouts were my own addition, so feel free to leave them out. 
Perfect to take to lunch the day after serving for dinner!
by spatchcock

6 servings
time to make 25 min 20 min prep

1 (6 	ounce) package skinny rice noodles (py mai fun)
1/2 	cup reduced-sodium fat-free chicken broth
3 	tablespoons low sodium soy sauce
1 	teaspoon sugar
1/2 	teaspoon salt
	cooking spray
1 	tablespoon peanut oil, divided
1 	large egg, beaten lightly
1/2 	cup red bell peppers, cut in strips
1 	tablespoon grated peeled fresh ginger
1/4 	teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
3-5 	garlic cloves, minced
8 	ounces boneless skinless chicken breasts, thinly sliced (I used 8 more oz of shrimp, you could also use cubed tofu)
1 	tablespoon curry powder
8 	ounces medium shrimp, peeled and deveined
1 	cup sliced green onions (1-inch slices)
1/2 	lb snow peas, sliced thinly
1/2 	lb mung bean sprouts

 1. Cook rice noodles according to package directions, leaving out any fat or salt that may be called for.
 2. Combine broth, soy sauce, sugar and salt, and stir togetehr till sugar dissolves.
 3. Heat large nonstick skillet over med-high heat; coat pan with cooking spray.
 4. Add 1 tsp oil.
 5. Add egg; stir-fry 30 seconds or until soft-scrambled, stirring constantly.
 6. Remove from pan, and set aside.
 7. Wipe down pan with cloth or paper towel.
 8. Heat remaining oil (about 2 tsp) in pan over med-high heat.
 9. Add bell pepper, ginger, red pepper, and garlic; stir-fry 15 seconds.
10. Add snow peas, bean sprouts, curry, and shrimp; stir fry two or three minutes, until shrimp is nearly done.
11. Stir in egg, noodles and broth mixture; cook 1 minute or until thoroughly heated.
12. Sprinkle with green onions.



spicy curry noodle soup with chicken and sweet potato

2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3 tablespoons chopped shallots
3 garlic cloves, chopped
2 tablespoons minced lemongrass* (from bottom 4 inches of about 3 stalks, tough outer leaves discarded)
2 tablespoons minced peeled fresh ginger
2 tablespoons Thai yellow curry paste*
2 tablespoons curry powder
1 teaspoon hot chili paste (such as sambal oelek)*
2 13.5- to 14-ounce cans unsweetened coconut milk,* divided
5 cups low-salt chicken broth
2 1/2 tablespoons fish sauce (such as nam pla or nuoc nam)*
2 teaspoons sugar
3 cups snow peas, trimmed
2 cups 1/2-inch cubes peeled red-skinned sweet potato (yam; from about 1 large)
1 pound dried rice vermicelli noodles or rice stick noodles*
3/4 pound skinless boneless chicken thighs, thinly sliced
1/2 cup thinly sliced red onion
1/4 cup thinly sliced green onions
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
3 red Thai bird chiles or 2 red jalapeño chiles, thinly sliced with seeds
1 lime, cut into 6 wedges

Heat oil in heavy large saucepan over medium heat. Add next 4 ingredients;
stir until fragrant, about 1 minute. Reduce heat to medium-low. Stir in curry
paste, curry powder, and chili paste. Add 1/2 cup coconut milk (scooped from
thick liquid at top of can). Stir until thick and fragrant, about 2 minutes.
Add remaining coconut milk, broth, fish sauce, and sugar; bring broth to boil.
Keep warm. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Refrigerate until cold, then
cover and keep chilled.

Cook snow peas in large pot of boiling salted water until bright green, about
20 seconds. Using strainer, remove peas from pot; rinse under cold water to
cool. Place peas in medium bowl. Bring water in same pot back to boil. Add
sweet potato and cook until tender, about 7 minutes. Using strainer, remove
sweet potato from pot and rinse under cold water to cool. Place in small bowl.
Bring water in same pot back to boil and cook noodles until just tender but
still firm to bite, about 6 minutes. Drain; rinse under cold water to cool.
Transfer to microwave-safe bowl. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 hour ahead. Let stand
at room temperature.

Bring broth to simmer. Add chicken; simmer until chicken is cooked through,
about 10 minutes. Add sweet potato; stir to heat through, about 1 minute. Heat
noodles in microwave in 30-second intervals to rewarm. Cut noodles with
scissors if too long. Divide noodles among bowls. Divide snow peas and hot
soup among bowls. Scatter red onion, green onions, cilantro, and chiles over
soup. Garnish with lime wedges and serve.


POTATOES SAVOYARDE

Savoy is a region in France, and this recipe comes from the book "French Cooking for Americans" written
by French chef Louis Diat, published in 1946.  I have changed the directions slightly.

4-5 large potatoes
1 med. onion, sliced
5-6 thin slices Swiss cheese
2 T. butter
1/4 tsp. salt
chicken or vegetable stock or water

Peel and cut potatoes in very thin slices.
Cook onion in butter until soft but not brown; stir in salt.
In a casserole dish, place a layer of potato slices, then some onion, and
  some cheese.  Repeat layers until the ingredients are used up.
Pour in some stock [I use chicken broth], but do NOT fill to the top with
  broth.
Bake at 400 for about 45 min. or until potatoes are done and top is brown.
Makes 3 or 4 servings.

Notes: A stylish potatoes au gratin.



VANILLA BROWNIES

Prep:
1. In a large saucepan put 2 c. (1 lb.) brown sugar and 1/2 cup butter or
   margarine.
2. In a small bowl, lightly whisk 2 eggs and then mix in 1 tsp. vanilla.
3. In a sifter put 1 1/2 c. flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, and 1/4 tsp. salt.
4. Coarsely chop 1/2 c. nuts.

Putting it all together:
1. Stirring constantly, heat the brown sugar and butter on top of the stove
   until nicely melted. Remove pan from heat.
2. Stirring quickly, stir in the eggs and vanilla.
3. Stirring patiently, mix in the flour mixture and the nuts.
4. Scoop the dough into a well-greased 9" square pan and bake at 375 for 25
   min.  Cool, cut, eat.

Note:  This recipe was given to me about 40 years ago by one of the owners of
The Silver Birches Inn, where I worked for four summers. (Faye Graff)



Spicy Baked Macaroni

Recipe courtesy Giada De Laurentiis   Show: Everyday Italian

Salt
1 pound elbow macaroni pasta
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 pound assorted mushrooms, quartered
1 onion, chopped
2 cloves garlic, chopped
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced tomatoes
1 (10-ounce) package frozen spinach, thawed and drained of excess liquid
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1/2 cups bread crumbs
1/4 cup grated Parmesan, plus 1/3 cup
1/4 cup Romano, plus 1/3 cup
2 tablespoons butter, softened, plus 2 tablespoons
12 ounces mozzarella cubed (about 2 cups)
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground nutmeg

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil over high heat. Add the pasta and
cook until tender but still firm to the bite, stirring occasionally, about 8
to 10 minutes. Drain pasta.

In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the mushrooms,
onion, and garlic. Cook until the mushrooms are tender and the onion is
golden, about 7 minutes. Add the tomatoes, spinach, and red pepper flakes.
Stir to combine and cook until heated through, about 5 minutes.

In a small bowl, mix together the bread crumbs, 1/4 cup Parmesan, and 1/4 cup
Romano. Spread the softened butter in a 9 by 13-inch glass baking dish and
sprinkle half of the bread crumb mixture inside the dish to coat.

In a large bowl combine the vegetable mixture with the cooked macaroni, cubed
mozzarella, the remaining Parmesan and Romano cheeses, and the nutmeg. Spoon
into the prepared baking dish, top with the remaining bread crumb mixture, and
dot the top with the remaining butter. Bake until the top is golden brown,
about 30 to 40 minutes.

Notes: This takes a bit of work but is a very good dish. The mushrooms and
spinach and tomatoes add a nice heartiness to the dish beyond the pasta and
cheese.


Fajitas

1 	teaspoon garlic powder
1 1/2 	teaspoons seasoning salt
1 1/2 	teaspoons ground cumin
1/2 	teaspoon chili powder
1/2 	teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
2 	tablespoons vegetable oil
2 	tablespoons lemon juice
1 1/2 	lbs beef or chicken
3-4 	tablespoons vegetable oil
1/2 	cup sliced onions
1/2 	cup sliced green peppers
8 	flour tortillas
2 	avocados, peeled and sliced
	salsa
	sour cream

1. Combine the first 7 ingredients to make marinade.
2. Slice Chicken or beef into strips.
3. Add to marinade and marinate for 2 hours.
4. Quickly saute onions and peppers in oil until lightly browned.
5. Remove from pan.
6. Saute marinated meat about 4 minutes.
7. Toss with vegetables.
8. Spoon into flour tortillas.
9. Serve with avocado slices and sour cream.

Notes: Good, though lacks the 'zip' of the Taco Bell fajita and taco
seasonings we like.



Pina Colada Pudding Recipe #85351
Only 2 WW points.
by Audrey M
35 min | 35 min prep | SERVES 6
1 (1 	ounce) package sugar-free instant vanilla pudding mix
1/2 	cup plain fat-free yogurt
1 	cup skim milk
1/2 	teaspoon coconut extract
1 (15 	ounce) can crushed pineapple with juice, undrained

1. Mix first 4 ingredients well in a large bowl.
2. Add pineapple and its juice.
3. Mix well.
4. Chill for 30 minutes.




Bavarian Sauerbraten Recipe #81224

Takes time, but worth the effort. Great served with potato dumplings,
spaetzle or noodles or boiled potatoes!

2 1/2 	cups dry red wine
1 1/2 	cups red wine vinegar
1 	cup water
4 	onions
1 	bunch celery leaves
2 	tablespoons coarse salt
2 	tablespoons sugar
1 	tablespoon mustard seeds
1/4 	teaspoon freshly ground nutmeg
10 	cloves
2 	teaspoons black peppercorns, crushed lightly
4 	sprigs parsley
2 	bay leaves
4 	lbs rump roast, tied
2 	tablespoons clarified butter
1/2 	cup crushed gingersnaps

 1. In a large non-reactive bowl, stir together the wine, vinegar, water, 3 of the onions (quartered), celery leaves, salt, sugar, mustard seeds, nutmeg, cloves, peppercorns, parsley, and bay leaves.
 2. Add the meat and let it marinate, covered and chilled, turning occasionally for 3 to 4 days.
 3. Remove meat from the marinade and reserve the marinade.
 4. Season the meat with salt and pepper.
 5. In a kettle, heat the clarified butter- until hot but not smoking.
 6. Add the meat and brown on all sides.
 7. Add the reserved marinade and gently simer the mixture, covered for 3 1/2 to 4 hours- until meat is tender.
 8. Transfer the meat to a cutting board.
 9. Strain the cooking liquid the skim off the fat.
10. Transfer 1/2 cup of the cooking liquid to a saucepan, bring to a boil and stir in the gingersnaps and the remaining liquid- a little at a time-stirring.
11. Boil the sauce- until thickend, salt and pepper to taste.
12. Slice meat and serve.



Ukranian Poppyseed Cake Recipe #135102

3/4 	cup poppy seeds
1 	cup milk
1/2 	lb butter
1 1/3 	cups sugar
3 	eggs
2 	cups unbleached flour
1 	tablespoon baking powder
1/2 	teaspoon salt
1/2 	teaspoon vanilla
1 	teaspoon lemon zest

1. Heat poppyseeds and milk in a small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from
   heat just before milk begins to boil. Let stand until milk reaches room
   temperature.
2. Preheat over to 350 degrees.
3. Cream together the butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time, beating well
   after each addition.
4. Sift together the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder and salt).
5. In thirds, alternately beat into the butter and sugar the dry ingredients
   and milk. Add the vanilla and lemon zest at the end.
6. Lightly butter 2 loaf pans and split batter between pans. Bake 40-50
   minutes until a toothpick or knife inserted comes out clean.


Tarynne's Potato Latkes Recipe #19809

3 	potatoes
1 	small red onion
2 	eggs
1/2 	cup flour
	salt and pepper

1. Shred potatoes and onions together.
2. Squeeze in a towel until dry.
3. Add eggs, flour, and season to taste.
4. Fry until golden brown.
5. Serve with sour cream or apple sauce, if desired.


Vietnamese Chicken Curry Recipe #22306

One of my favourite curries that I find quite quick and easy.
by JustJanS
1 hour | 20 min prep | SERVES 4

1 1/2 	kg chicken pieces
4 	teaspoons oil
2 	medium onions, quartered
2 	garlic cloves, crushed
1 	small red chili, finely chopped
4 	tablespoons finely chopped fresh ginger
4 	teaspoons chopped fresh lemongrass
2 	tablespoons mild curry paste
2 1/2 	tablespoons brown sugar
1 (400 	ml) can coconut cream
1/2 	cup chicken stock

   1. Heat the oil in a pan and fry the onion for about 5 minutes or until soft.
   2. Add garlic, chilli, ginger lemongrass and curry paste.
   3. Add chicken and braise on all sides, coating well with curry paste.
   4. Cover and cook for 15 minutes over a low heat.
   5. Remove lid, add sugar and stir well.
   6. Pour in coconut cream and stock and bring to the boil.
   7. Reduce heat and simmer uncovered for another 30 minutes.
   8. Serve over rice.
   9. I*like to add zucchini, green beans, and red and green capsicum in the last 15 minutes of cooking if I don't feel like making a separate vegetable dish.



Vietnamese Chicken Curry Recipe #102647

Some of the best chicken you will ever have. I have been eating this dish for 39 years since the first time my wife served it to me in VietNam and I haven't tired of it yet.
by Tom

1½ hours | 45 min prep | SERVES 6

2 	lbs boneless skinless chicken, cut bite-size pieces
3 	large potatoes, skinned,and chopped
2 	tablespoons peanut oil or olive oil
2 	large carrots, skinned and chopped
1 	medium onion, chopped
2 	stalks fresh lemongrass, minced
2 	stalks celery, chopped
2 	cloves garlic, minced
1 (13 1/2 	ounce) can coconut milk
1 (13 1/2 	ounce) can chicken stock
1 	teaspoon pepper
1 	teaspoon salt, to taste
	fresh cilantro
	fresh French bread or soft rye bread, sliced,for dipping
2 	tablespoons India or good curry

   1. Heat oil in large pot and fry onions and garlic for 1 minute.
   2. Add the chicken and continue cooking for 3 minutes.
   3. Add all the spices.
   4. Stir everything together for a few minutes.
   5. Let cook until chicken is tender.
   6. Add the rest of the ingredient.
   7. Bring to a boil and simmer gently for about 20 mintes.
   8. Garnish with cilantro before serving in bowls.
   9. Eat with French bread or serve with steamed rice.







Mexican Rice Recipe #117892

Are you craving that great rice from your favorite taco stand? Here it is. This is just like a good Mexican restaurant rice. Many recipes taste good... but the texture just isn't right. You know how it is... you have prepared scores of Mexican rice recipes but always have been disappointed. It may be delicious but kinda "gloopy and wet." Try this. Everything is pureed and cooked in. There are no chunks of anything... just dry fluffy rice with all the seasonings and just the tiniest hint of a tomato flavor. I will throw away all of my Mexican rice recipes- this is the one I have been looking for for years!

by Pot Scrubber

55 min | 20 min prep | SERVES 6 -8

12 	ounces tomatoes, very ripe and cored
1 	medium white onion
3 	medium jalapenos
2 	cups long grain white rice
1/3 	cup canola oil
4 	minced garlic cloves
2 	cups chicken broth
1 	tablespoon tomato paste
1 1/2 	teaspoons salt
1/2 	cup fresh cilantro, minced
1 	lime

   1. Adjust rack to middle position and preheat oven to 350.
   2. Process tomato and onion in processor or blender until pureed and thoroughly smooth. Transfer mixture to measuring cup and reserve exactly 2 cups. Discard excess.
   3. Remove ribs and seeds from 2 jalapenos and discard. Mince flesh and set aside. Mince remaining jalapeno. Set aside.
   4. Place rice in a fine mesh strainer and rinse under cold running water until water runs clear- about 1 1/2 minutes.Shake rice vigorously to remove excess water.This step removes the starch from the rice so it will not stick. IF YOU OMIT THIS STEP YOUR RICE WILL NOT BE DRY AND FLUFFY.
   5. Heat oil in heavy bottomed ovensafe 12 inch straight sided sautee pan or Dutch oven with tight fitting lid over medium high heat about 2 minutes. (The recipe is very specific about this but I used a 10 inch dutch oven and it worked out fine.) Drop a few rice grains in and if they sizzle then it is ready. Add rice and fry stirring until rice is light golden and translucent, about 6-8 minutes.
   6. Reduce heat to medium, add garlic and 2 minced jalapenos and cook , stirring constantly until fragrant, about 1 1/2 minutes.
   7. Stir in broth, pureed mixture,tomato paste, and salt. Increase heat to medium high, and bring to a boil.
   8. Cover pan and transfer pan to oven to bake until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender, 30-35 minutes.Stir well after 15 minutes.
   9. Stir in cilantro, minced jalapeno to taste, and pass lime wedges separately.
  10. Edited to add 6-15-05: If you can't get good fresh tomatoes you are better off using canned tomatoes. Don't use those awful hard and underipe tomatoes that are at most supermarket chains. Just be sure that the processed tomatoes and the one onion equals 2 cups. One the other hand- if you find that after processing your tomatoes and onions that you have less than 2 cups- simply add enough bottled salsa to make up the difference.
  11. Edited 8-21-06: Do not skip any of the steps. It may seem stupid- but rinsing the rice to remove the starch is very important if you want fluffy rice. It will only take two minutes of your time but it makes the difference.
  12. You're gonna like it.



Shrimp tikka with fresh mango chutney

For shrimp:
1/4 cup vegetable oil
2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1 (1-inch) piece fresh jalapeño, chopped (about 2 tsp)
1 (1-inch) piece peeled ginger, chopped
1 large garlic clove, smashed
2 tsp ground garam masala
3/4 tsp turmeric
1/8 tsp grated nutmeg
2 lb large shrimp in shell, peeled, leaving tail fan attached

For chutney:
1 tsp ground cumin
1 (3/4-lb) unripe mango, chopped
1/3 seedless cucumber, peeled and chopped (3/4 cup)
1/2 cup chopped red onion
1 to 2 tsp minced fresh jalapeño with seeds
3 Tbsp fresh lime juice
3 Tbsp thinly sliced mint
3 Tbsp chopped cilantro

Equipment: 10 (12-inch) wooden skewers, soaked in water 30 minutes
Accompaniment: lime wedges

Marinate shrimp:
Purée all ingredients for marinating shrimp, except shrimp, with 1/2 tsp salt in a blender until smooth. Pour into a sealable bag, then add shrimp and marinate at cool room temperature, turning bag occasionally, 30 minutes. Make chutney while shrimp marinate: Toast cumin in a dry small skillet over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until fragrant, about 1 minute.

Stir together remaining chutney ingredients with 1/4 tsp salt, then sprinkle with toasted cumin.

Make kebabs:
Prepare grill for direct-heat cooking over hot charcoal (medium-high heat for gas);

Thread 4 shrimp onto each skewer, leaving small spaces between them. Put on a tray.

Oil grill rack, then grill skewers, covered only if using a gas grill, turning once, until just cooked through, 4 to 6 minutes total. Serve with chutney.

Cooks' notes:
•Shrimp can be cooked in a hot well-oiled large (2-burner) ridged grill pan, turning once, about 8 minutes total.
•Marinade can be made 1 day ahead and chilled.
•Chutney can be made 6 hours ahead and chilled.






Lemongrass Chicken Recipe #3547
Fresh lemongrass can be found at Asian markets, specialty greengrocers, and at many supermarkets. If unavailable use dried lemon grass (soak in hot water for 20 minutes). Or use 1 teaspoon grated lemon zest.
by Dancer^

SERVES 4

    * 1 1/4 lbs boneless skinless chicken breasts
    * 1 1/2 tablespoons honey
    * 3 tablespoons fish sauce or soy sauce
    * 2 tablespoons minced fresh lemongrass (about 1-2 stalks)
    * 1 1/2 tablespoons canola oil
    * 3 cloves garlic, minced
    * 1 large onion, thinly sliced (about 2 cups)
    * 3 tablespoons fresh cilantro, chopped (optional) or mint, chopped (for garnish) (optional)

   1. Wash and dry the chicken and trim off any fat. Cut the chicken breast across the grain on the diagonal into 1/8-inch strips.
   2. Cut these strips into 2-inch pieces.
   3. Combine the chicken, honey, and 1 tablespoon fish sauce in a bowl and stir to mix.
   4. Let marinate for 5 to 10 minutes.
   5. Trim the green leaves and root end off the lemongrass stalk and strip off the outside leaves.
   6. What remains will be a greenish crea m-colored core 4 to 5 inches long and 1/4 to 1/2 inch thick.
   7. Mince the core finely: You'll need about 2 tablespoons.
   8. Just before serving, heat a wok (preferably nonstick) over high heat and swirl in the oil.
   9. Add the garlic and lemongrass and stir-fry until fragrant but not brown, about 15 seconds.
  10. Add the chicken and stir-fry until the pieces turn white, about 1 minute. Move the chicken to the sides of the wok and add the o nion to the center.
  11. Stir-fry until the onion loses its rawness, about 1 minute. Mix the chicken back in the center of the wok, add the remaining fish sauce, continue stir-frying until the chicken is cooked, 2 to 3 minutes.
  12. Correct the seasoning, adding honey or fish sauce to taste. The dish should be a little sweet and salty.
  13. Sprinkle the chicken with the cilantro, if desired, and serve at once.




Thai Lemongrass Roast Chicken Recipe #292402

4 1/2 hours | 3¼ hours prep

SERVES 4

    * 1/2 cup finely chopped lemongrass (3 or 4 stalks)
    * 2 tablespoons finely chopped shallots
    * 1 tablespoon finely chopped garlic
    * 4 1/2 teaspoons fish sauce
    * 1 tablespoon soy sauce
    * 1 tablespoon crushed red pepper flakes
    * 1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
    * 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
    * 1 (3-4 lb)  whole chickens, rinsed and patted dry
    * 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh cilantro
    * 1 tablespoon vegetable oil

   1. In a nonreactive dish large enough to hold the chicken, combine all but 2 Tbs. of 
      the lemongrass with all of the shallots, garlic, fish sauce, soy sauce, red pepper flakes, salt, and sugar. 
	  Add the chicken and turn it to coat, tucking some of the marinade underneath its skin. Pour any excess marinade 
	  into the bird’s cavity. Marinate in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours, preferably overnight. 
	  Bring the chicken to room temperature before cooking it.
   2. Heat the oven to 350°F Put the chicken, breast side down, on a rack in a roasting pan. 
      Cook for 40 minute Turn the bird over and roast until the chicken is cooked and nicely browned, 20 to 30 minute. 
	  The sugar in the marinade may cause the pan juices to burn, but this won’t affect the chicken’s flavor.
   3. About 10 minute before the chicken is done, combine the remaining 2 Tbs. lemongrass with the cilantro and vegetable oil. 
      Using a spoon, rub the mixture on the bird, spreading it evenly; continue roasting. 
	  The chicken is done when its juices run clear. Let the chicken sit for 10 minute out of the oven before carving.




Vietnamese Chicken Curry Recipe #22306
One of my favourite curries that I find quite quick and easy.
by JustJanS

1 hour | 20 min prep

SERVES 4

    * 1 1/2 kg chicken pieces
    * 4 teaspoons oil
    * 2 medium onions, quartered
    * 2 garlic cloves, crushed
    * 1 small red chile, finely chopped
    * 4 tablespoons finely chopped fresh ginger
    * 4 teaspoons chopped fresh lemongrass
    * 2 tablespoons mild curry paste
    * 2 1/2 tablespoons brown sugar
    * 1 (400 ml) can coconut cream
    * 1/2 cup chicken stock

   1. Heat the oil in a pan and fry the onion for about 5 minutes or until soft.
   2. Add garlic, chilli, ginger lemongrass and curry paste.
   3. Add chicken and braise on all sides, coating well with curry paste.
   4. Cover and cook for 15 minutes over a low heat.
   5. Remove lid, add sugar and stir well.
   6. Pour in coconut cream and stock and bring to the boil.
   7. Reduce heat and simmer uncovered for another 30 minutes.
   8. Serve over rice.
   9. I*like to add zucchini, green beans, and red and green capsicum in the last 15 minutes of cooking if I don't feel like making a separate vegetable dish.



Morrocan Chili and 10,000 Grains of Sand

Recipe courtesy Rachael Ray, 2007

2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 pounds ground lamb
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons chili powder
1/2 tablespoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon ground coriander
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 bay leaf
1 large onion, chopped
1 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1 lemon, zested and juiced
2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce, eyeball it
1 (14-ounce) can tomato sauce
2 tablespoons butter
1 1/2 cups chicken stock
A handful golden raisins
4 apricots, chopped
1 1/2 cups couscous
3 to 4 tablespoons toasted pine nuts
A handful fresh parsley leaves, chopped
A handful fresh mint leaves, chopped
3 tablespoons finely chopped chives
8 pita breads, cut into wedgesfor scooping

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.

Heat skillet with extra-virgin olive oil, add meat and brown. Season the meat
with salt and pepper, to taste, chili powder, cumin, coriander, cinnamon and
paprika. Add the bay leaf, onions, bell pepper and garlic to the pan. Cook
until onions are soft, 8 minutes. Add lemon juice and zest, Worcestershire
sauce and tomato sauce. Stir and reduce heat to simmer.

Bring butter and stock to a boil in a pot with tight fitting lid. Add dried
fruit and couscous, stir then turn off heat and set lid in place. Let stand 5
minutes. Add nuts and herbs and toss with fork.

Toast pita wedges in hot oven or under broiler. Pile chili in bowls, top with
"sand" and serve with pita wedges for scooping.







Senegalese Chicken and Peanut Soup Recipe #109454

This is an award winning soup recipe. The soup should be silky and smooth but
not thick; it should be spicy, but not too hot; it should have a sharpness of
tomato and lemon, but not be sour; it should taste of peanuts, but not of
peanut butter. It freezes beautifully. Note - I just adopted this one -- it
was originally posted by my friend Mean Chef -- the intro is perfect and is
exactly what you should be tasting in the final product! :-)

by Kirstin in the Couv

1 hour | 20 min prep

SERVES 4 -6

    * 1 large onion, chopped
    * 2 garlic cloves, minced
    * 1/4 teaspoon cayenne
    * 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
    * 1/4 cup curry powder
    * 1 tablespoon yellow curry paste
    * 1 quart chicken stock
    * 1 quart diced tomatoes with juice
    * 4 cups cooked chicken, diced (I used one whole cooked chicken)
    * 3/4 teaspoon sambal oelek chili paste (red chile paste)
    * 1 cup chunky peanut butter
    * 1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk
    * 1 bunch cilantro, chopped
    * lemon juice, to taste (I used the juice of 1 small lemon)

   1. Saute onion, garlic and cayenne in oil until onion is translucent.

   2. Stir in curry powder and curry paste; saute 1 minute.

   3. Add chicken stock and tomatoes in juice; bring to a boil, then simmer
      for 15 minutes.

   4. Add cooked chicken and sambal; simmer for 10 minutes.

   5. Whisk in peanut butter a little at a time until incorporated; add
      coconut milk and stir to incorporate.

   6. Turn soup to low and add cilantro and lemon juice to brighten the
      taste; check seasoning.


Peanut Butter Soup Recipe #11569
Sounds questionable but tastes wonderful.
by Anne

35 min | 5 min prep

SERVES 2 -4 , 4 large bowls

    * 1 ounce butter
    * 1 ounce flour
    * 1/2 pint milk or cream
    * 4 large bay leaves
    * 2-3 ounces peanut butter
    * 1 pint chicken stock or 1  chicken stock cube, dissolved in hot water

   1. Heat butter in pan, stir in flour, cook for several min stir well.
   2. Remove pan from heat stir in milk/cream then place on stove and bring to boil (at this stage do not feed the cat or take out the garbage) until smooth and thick.
   3. Again stirring to keep sauce smooth.
   4. Add bay leaves.
   5. Put Peanut butter in a bowl and add a little of the sauce, stir in gradually then return contents of bowl to pan; add stock and season with salt and pepper.
   6. Heat again, stirring all the while.
   7. Simmer for a few minutes, then serve.


Peanut Soup Recipe #95945
A friend gave me this recipie, it is delicious. Serve with wholemeal bread.
by wizkid

15 min | 5 min prep

SERVES 4

    * 1/2 lb peanut butter
    * 1 1/2 pints vegetable stock
    * 1/2 pint milk
    * 2 teaspoons nutmeg (preferably freshly ground)
    * 2 teaspoons of hot curry powder
    * 1 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper

   1. Gradually add the milk to the peanut butter, stirring constantly until it is a smooth paste.
   2. Then gradually add the vegetable stock.
   3. Add the rest of the ingredients.
   4. Heat thoroughly for about 10 minutes.
   5. serve.


Peanut Butter Soup Recipe #82655
My mom use to make this for us kids and it was good with a sandwich on the side. It is so simple, I was hesitant to post it
by Roger/OH

7 min | 2 min prep

SERVES 2

    * 1 (10 3/4 ounce) can condensed cream of celery soup
    * 1/3 cup peanut butter (Creamy or Crunchy)
    * celery salt
    * oyster crackers

   1. Mix soup in small sauce pan per label directions
   2. Add 2 Tbs of Peanut Butter
   3. Heat soup on medium heat, stirring occasionally, until Peanut Butter is melted and soup is heated through
   4. Ladle into bowl and sprinkle to taste with celery salt
   5. Serve with oyster crackers.



Eggplant (Aubergine) -Spinach Curry

Ingredients

 1 large eggplant, cut into 1 1/2 centimeter cubes, with skin
 2 teaspoons kosher salt
 2 tablespoons brown mustard seeds
 2 tablespoons canola oil
 1 large onion, diced
 6 garlic cloves, minced
 2 tablespoons fresh ginger, minced
 1 teaspoon cumin, ground
 1/2 teaspoon coriander, freshly ground
 1/2 teaspoon cardamom, freshly ground
 1/2 teaspoon garam masala
 1/4 teaspoon cayenne
 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
 1 (796 ml) can diced tomatoes
 2 (300 g) packages frozen spinach, thawed and drained
 3/4 cup plain yogurt
 3/4 cup cilantro, chopped

Directions

Put eggplant cubes in colander over large bowl, sprinkle with kosher salt,
and let stand for 30 minutes to sweat. Pat dry and remove excess salt with
paper towels or clean dishcloth. (Careful, this juice stains!).

Toast mustard seeds in a small dry non-stick pan over medium-low heat until
they turn grey and begin to pop. Remove from heat and reserve in a small bowl.

Place eggplant in a mid-sized steamer and cook for about 10 minutes, until
eggplant is soft and tender but not mushy. Remove from heat and reserve.

Heat canola oil in large pot over medium heat. Add onion and sauté until
golden. Stir in garlic, ginger, and all other spices, being careful to avoid
scorching.

After 1 minute, add spinach and tomatoes. Raise heat to high and boil for 2
minutes, stirring often. Turn heat down to low and simmer with lid on for 20
minutes to allow flavours to blend.

Stir in reserved mustard seeds and eggplant. Once eggplant is hot, stir in
yogurt and chopped cilantro. Remove from heat.

Serve alone on a bed of rice, or with a beef curry and naan bread.




Lamb and Eggplant Shepherd's Pie Bon Appétit | March 2009

by Jeanne Thiel Kelley

This Greek-inspired shepherd's pie is made with lamb, eggplant, and oregano. The mashed potato topping 
gets its Greek flavor from kasseri cheese, a hard, salty cheese. If you can't find kasseri cheese, use 
Pecorino Romano instead. Finish the dish with a sprinkling of chopped fresh oregano, if desired.

Yield: Makes 8 to 10 servings
 
Filling:
1 1 1/2-pound eggplant, unpeeled, cut into 3/4-to 1-inch cubes
Coarse kosher salt
7 tablespoons (or more) extra-virgin olive oil, divided
2 pounds well-trimmed boneless lamb shoulder, cut into 1-inch cubes
All purpose flour
3 cups chopped onions
1 cup dry white wine
1 28-ounce can diced tomatoes in juice
3 cups beef broth (preferably organic)
8 garlic cloves, chopped
1 tablespoon dried oregano

Topping:
2 1/2 pounds russet potatoes, peeled, cut into 1-inch cubes
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
3/4 cup whole milk
1 1/4 cups (packed) coarsely grated kasseri cheese* (5 to 6 ounces)
  preparation
For filling:

Scatter eggplant on rimmed baking sheet. Sprinkle with coarse salt; letstand 1 hour, tossing occasionally. 
Rinse eggplant and pat very dry.

Heat 3 tablespoons oil in heavy large pot over medium-high heat. 
Add eggplant and sauté until tender, about 12 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl.

Sprinkle lamb generously with coarse salt and pepper, then dust with flour tocoat. 
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in same potover medium-high heat. 
Add half of lamb. Sauté until browned, about 8 minutes.
Transfer lamb to large bowl. Repeat with 2 tablespoons oil and remaining lamb.

Add 1 additional tablespoon oil to same pot, if needed. Add onions. 
Cover and cookover medium-low heat until very tender,about 10 minutes (bottom of pot will be very dark). 
Add wine to pot. Increase heat and boiluntil wine evaporates, scraping up brownedbits, about 5 minutes. 
Add tomatoes withjuice, broth, garlic, and oregano and bring toboil. Add lamb with any accumulated juices.
Cover; reduce heat to low and simmer 1 hour. 
Uncover and continue to simmer until lamb is very tender and gravy thickens slightly, about 45 minutes. 
Stir in eggplant. Season with saltand pepper. 
Transfer to 13x9x2-inch glassbaking dish. 

DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 daysahead. Cool slightly. Cover and chill.

For topping:

Preheat oven to 375°F. 
Cook potatoes in large pot of boiling salted wateruntil tender, about 14 minutes.

Meanwhile, melt butter with oil in medium saucepan over medium-high heat. 
Add garlic. Sauté until fragrant, about 1minute.  Add milk and bring to simmer.

Drain potatoes. Return to pot. Stir over medium heat until excess moisture evaporates. 
Add milk mixture and mashpotatoes until just smooth. Stir in cheese. 
Season with coarse salt and pepper. Drop potatoes over filling by heaping tablespoonfuls, covering completely.

Bake pie until filling is heated through and topping is golden, about 45 minutes.

* A firm white cheese made from sheep’s milk; available at many supermarkets and at Greek markets and some Italian markets.
 

 
 
French Country Casserole 

Ingredients

    * 1 lb kielbasa, cooked,halved lengthwise and cut into 1/4 inch slices
    * 1 (16 ounce) can kidney beans, drained and rinsed
    * 1 (15 1/2 ounce) can great northern beans, drained and rinsed
    * 1 (15 ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed
    * 1 (15 ounce) can tomato sauce
    * 3 medium carrots, thinly sliced
    * 2 small onions, separated into rings
    * 1/2 cup red wine or beef broth
    * 2 tablespoons brown sugar
    * 2 cloves garlic, minced
    * 1 1/2 teaspoons dried thyme

Directions
   1. Combine all ingredients in a bowl; transfer to an ungreased 3-quart baking dish.
   2. Cover and bake at 375ºF for 60 to 70 minutes or until carrots are tender.

   
   
Moroccan Chickpeas and Sweet Potatoes
 
Ingredients

    * 1 large onion, thinly sliced
    * 3 garlic cloves, minced
    * 1 tablespoon fresh ginger, minced
    * 2 tablespoons red wine or cooking sherry
    * 1 teaspoon cumin
    * 1 teaspoon cinnamon
    * 1 teaspoon paprika
    * 1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes, to taste
    * 1 cup water (or chickpea cooking liquid)
    * 1/2 teaspoon salt
    * 2 medium sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into bite-size pieces (1 1/2 pounds)
    * 1/4 cup diced dried apricot
    * 2 cups cooked chickpeas
    * 1/4 cup raisins
    * 2 tablespoons lemon juice
    * 1/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted in a dry skillet

1 In a medium saucepan, combine the onion, garlic, ginger, and wine or sherry.
2 Cover and sweat over low heat for 5 minutes.
3 Add the cumin, cinnamon, paprika, and red pepper flakes and cook, uncovered, 1 minute longer.
4 Add the water or chickpea cooking liquid, salt, sweet potatoes, and apricots.
5 Bring to a boil, cover, and simmer until the sweet potatoes are just tender, about 15 minutes.
6 Add the chickpeas, raisins, and lemon juice.
7 Cook, stirring occasionally, for about 5 minutes, until the chickpeas are hot.
8 Add the sliced almonds.	


New Orleans Shrimp Creole

Ingredients
    * 8 slices bacon, diced
    * 1/2 cup chopped yellow onion
    * 1/2 cup chopped green onion
    * 1 1/2 cups chopped green bell peppers
    * 1 cup chopped celery
    * 1 clove garlic, minced
    * 2 (14 1/2 ounce) cans plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped,with juice
    * 3 tablespoons tomato paste
    * 1/2 cup chicken stock or broth
    * 1/4 cup red wine vinegar
    * 1/2 teaspoon dry mustard
    * 4 drops Tabasco sauce
    * 1 teaspoon salt
    * fresh ground pepper
    * 1/2 cup dry red wine
    * 1 lb large raw shrimp, peeled and deveined

Directions
   1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, fry bacon until crisp, about 6 minutes.
   2. With a slotted spoon, remove bacon to a plate, leaving 2 tablespoons bacon drippings in (the best part!) Reduce heat to medium.
   3. Add onions, bell pepper, celery, and garlic and sauté until tender, about 6 to 7 minutes.
   4. Add tomatoes, tomato paste, stock, vinegar, mustard, Tabasco sauce, salt, and pepper.
   5. Return bacon to pan.
   6. Simmer over medium-low heat, uncovered, for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
   7. Add wine and shrimp and cook until shrimp turn pink, about 5 minutes.
   
   
   
Okonomiyaki Sauce
Ingredients:
1/4 cup ketchup
1 1/2 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce
1/4 tsp. dijon mustard
2 Tbsp. rice wine
1 tsp. soy sauce
Directions:
Combine all ingredients in a small saucepan and heat until bubbly. Simmer about 30 seconds more, stirring constantly. Remove from heat.

What's this for? Look below...


Okonomiyaki
Base:
1 cup flour
3/4 cup dashi (or water, see below)*
1 egg
1/8-1/4 of a cabbage

Toppings - any of the below:
Chicken
Roast pork or beef
Squid, Octopus, other seafood
Corn
Mushrooms
Onion

Sauces:
Okonomiyaki sauce (or tonkatsu sauce)
Mayonnaise

* Dashi is japanese stock, used in heaps of different recipes. When made 
up it smells like smoked fish and seaweed. You can buy it from oriental 
grocers in sachets that come in boxes like the one to the right of the 
beer in the picture above. Just mix up a bit with some hot water. If you 
can't find it, it's okay - just use water. 

Step 1:
So firstly grab that cabbage and chop it up finely. Better to have too 
much than too little because it shrinks a little as it cooks, and it's 
mega cheap anyway. Get out as much of the white stem parts as you can. 

Step 2: 
Now break an egg into a large bowl and pour in the dashi/water, and the 
flour. 

Step 3: 
Then beat with a whisk until smooth. 

Step 4: 
Now add some of the finely chopped cabbage and mix as best you can.  

Step 5: 
Heat up your skillet, electric frypan, grill, whatever you're going to 
use to cook this baby. Preferably use something that's got teflon on it 
:-) 

Step 6: 
Now prepare your toppings. I'm using Chinese BBQ pork slices, a little 
bell pepper, some onion, mushrooms, parsely and spring onion. Just chop 
it all up good. 

Step 7: 
Throw it all in the frypan with some oil (sesame is good) to keep it all 
well-lubed. Cook until either heated through or in the case of raw meat 
or veges, for a few minutes until it's getting close to being cooked. 
NOTE: If there are no raw ingredients in your toppings you can throw 
everything in with the batter from the start.

Step 8: 
Arrange the nearly cooked toppings in a round... 

Step 9: 
Then throw the cabbage/dough mixture on top, also in a round! 

Step 10: 
Turn up the heat a little to medium and let that bad boy cook through 
for 5 minutes or so. Then flip it. In the picture below, I had to cut 
the round in half to flip it, which doesn't matter because we'll be 
cutting it into pieces later anyway. You could always make two 
okonomiyaki instead! 

Let it cook for another 5-10 minutes. You can break away a bit of the 
dough bit when it doesn't look raw any more and see if the cabbage and 
dough is cooked through. 

Step 11: 
Flip it out onto a plate and cover liberally with Okonomiyaki sauce and 
mayonnaise! OH GOD MY TASTEBUDS! 

Step 12: 
Cut, serve and savour! Bon apetit. 

 

 
Goi Cuon (Vietnamese Cold Spring Rolls) Recipe #20445

30 min | 30 min prep

24 rolls, aprox

    * 1 package clear edible rice paper sheet
    * 1/2 lb cooked chicken
    * 1/2 lb cooked small shrimp (, peeled, deveined, halved)
    * 1 bunch fresh cilantro leaves
    * 1 bunch fresh mint leaves
    * 1 head leafy lettuce, washed and separated into leaves
    * 1 cucumber, peeled and cut into very,very thin strips
    * 1 cup fresh bean sprout, optional
    * 1 package vermicelli rice noodles, prepared according to package directions
    * hoisin sauce, to taste
    * chopped peanuts
    * nuoc nam, vietnamese spicy fish sauce

   1. Have all meats precooked and cold and the rice noodles prepared already (the noodles should be white, long and at room temp).
   2. Make sure all veggies and herbs are cleaned, dried, and set out before you start.
   3. Dip a sheet of rice paper wrapper into water very quickly, no longer than a second or two (or they will get too soggy) and lay flat on a work surface.
   4. On one edge, lay a small handful of noodles, a few strips of meat, some shrimp, some cilantro and mint leaves, a lettuce leaf, some cucumber strips and bean sprouts, all to taste but don't overstuff.
   5. Carefully start to roll up eggroll style, tucking in the sides, then continue to roll up-but not too tightly or the spring roll will split.
   6. These rolls will be thicker than the typical Chinese-style fried eggrolls.
   7. Combine a few spoonfulls of hoisin sauce with some chopped peanuts to use as a dipping sauce (or serve with prepared spicy fish sauce dip called Nuoc Mam, available at Asian markets).
   8. Serve immediately- these do not keep and will harden up in the fridge, so it is best to make just as many as you plan to serve (store any extra unassembled fillings in fridge and roll later).
   9. Note: Please be sure to get the correct spring roll rice papers- these are not the same as wonton/eggroll wrappers, which must be cooked.
  10. Look for edible rice paper wrappers, rice noodle vermicelli, and hoisin sauce in Asian markets.


  
Split Pea Soup with Rosemary

Ingredients:
6 slices bacon, cut into 1 inch pieces
1 small onion, chopped
1 leek, thinly sliced
1 large carrot, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
	
4 (10.5 ounce) cans chicken broth
1 1/2 cups green split peas
2 bay leaves
1 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary

Directions:
1. 	Place bacon in a large pot, and cook over medium heat until crisp. 
2.  Stir in onion, leek, carrot, and garlic; cook until the vegetables are soft, about 8 minutes. 
3.  Pour in chicken broth. Stir in split peas, bay leaves, and rosemary. Bring to a boil. 
4.  Reduce heat to low; cover, and simmer until peas are cooked, about 1 hour, stirring occasionally.




IHOP Country Griddle Cakes (Cream of Wheat Pancakes)

1 1/4 cups flour
1/3 cup instant Cream of Wheat cereal
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 1/2 tablespoons buttermilk powder*
1 1/2 cups water*
1 egg
1/4 cup vegetable oil

NOTE: In place of the buttermilk powder and 1 1/2 cups water, you can use 1 1/2 cups liquid buttermilk.

Combine all ingredients. Mix at high speed of electric mixer until smooth - batter will be thin. Pour onto hot skillet and cook 1 to 2 minutes per side or until brown.

This is a really good pancake recipe that we've had for many years!



Irish Beef Stew With Guinness Stout Recipe #809

2½ hours | 30 min prep

SERVES 4 -6

* 2 tablespoons olive oil
* 3 bay leaves
* 2 lbs beef stew meat, cut into 1 1/2 (with some fat left on the meat)
* 1 large yellow onion, peeled and cut into 1/4
* 2 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped
* 1 teaspoon dried thyme
* 1 teaspoon dried rosemary
* 2-3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
* 3/4 cup beef stock (or use canned)
* 1/2 cup Guinness stout
* 1 tablespoon parsley, chopped
* 1/2 lb carrot, sliced
* salt and black pepper, freshly ground

1. Heat a 6 quart stove top casserole or oven proof pot and add the oil and the bay leaves.
2. Cook the bay leaves for a moment and then add the meat. Brown the meat on both sides on high heat.
3. Add the onion and cook for a few minutes until it is clear.
4. Reduce the heat to low and add the garlic, thyme, rosemary and flour and stir until smooth.
5. Add the beef stock and stout; simmer, stirring until the stew thickens a bit. Add the remaining ingredients and cover.
6. Place the pot in the oven at 275 F: for about 2 hours, stirring a couple of times.
7. Check for the salt and pepper before serving.




Baked Oatmeal
http://www.recipezaar.com/recipe/Baked-Oatmeal-223392

Ingredients

    * 1 1/3 cups oatmeal
    * 1 cup raisins
    * 1 cup skim milk
    * 1 cup brown sugar
    * 1 tablespoon butter, melted
    * 1 teaspoon cinnamon
    * 1/8 teaspoon salt
    * 1 granny smith apple, chopped
    * 1/4 cup walnuts, chopped

Directions

   1. Preheat oven to 350°F.
   2. Mix everything together in a greased 1 quart casserole.
   3. Bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes or until milk is absorbed.
   4. Serve with milk or cream. Add more sugar or other toppings to your heart's desire.


   
   
Three Sisters Soup
http://www.recipezaar.com/recipe/three-sisters-soup-410371

Ingredients

    * 1 cup dried pinto bean, soaked overnight in 4 cups water
    * 1 acorn squash
    * 1-2 tablespoon olive oil
    * 1 onion, diced
    * 1 carrot, sliced
    * 4 garlic cloves, minced
    * 1 celery rib, sliced
    * 4 cups vegetable stock
    * 1 cup corn
    * 1 teaspoon dried thyme (or 2T fresh)
    * salt and pepper

1. Drain and rinse soaked beans. Put them in a pot and cover with water by an inch. Bring to a boil 
   and simmer for about 45 minutes or until tender but not mushy. Add more water if necessary.
2. While beans are cooking, cut squash in half and scoop out seeds. Bake squash halves, cut side up, 
   in a 375-degree oven for about 45 minutes or until tender.
3. Heat oil in a large saucepan. Add onions and a pinch of salt and saute over medium heat, stirring 
   often until golden, about 10 minutes.
4. Add carrot, garlic and celery and saute for 5-10 minutes.
5. Scoop cooked squash out of shell. Add to onion mixture and mix well, smoothing out any large lumps.
6. Add stock and bring to a boil.
7. Turn down heat and add beans, corn and thyme. Simmer, covered, for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
8. Salt and pepper to taste.
9. Serve hot with crusty bread.

Notes: I sliced the acorn squash into wedges, sprinkled with s&p and drizzled olive oil over it before baking.
  When that was done it looked so nice I didn't want to mash it up so I cut it into chunks. As a result the soup
  is probably more brothy. It is still very good! I also forgot to add the corn but did not miss it. Definitely
  should make this soup again.


Simpler Posole, Navajo (Hominy Pork Stew)
http://www.recipezaar.com/recipe/Simpler-Posole-Navajo-Hominy-Pork-Stew-210665

Ingredients

    * 2 cups blue dried posole (dried whole hominy) or 8 cups hominy or 3 lbs frozen hominy
    * 1/2 cup mild fresh green chilies, roasted, peeled and chopped or canned chile
    * 1-3 fresh or canned jalapeno, peeled, seeded, and chopped
    * 2 garlic cloves, minced
    * 1 onion, chopped
    * 1-2 tomatoes, seeded, and chopped (1 cup) or 1 (10 ounce) can diced tomatoes
    * 2-3 lbs boneless pork roast
    * 2 teaspoons dried oregano
    * 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro (coriander leaves)
    * salt

   1. Rinse posole in cold water until water runs clear.Soak for several hours or overnight in cold water.
   2. Place posole with water to cover in large heavy covered pot or Dutch oven and bring to a boil, 
      reduce heat to low and simmer covered, till posole pops, about 1 hour. If using canned hominy or frozen hominy ,omit these steps.
   3. Roast the peppers(if fresh)in a paper bag in a 400 degree oven for about 10 minutes, remove, cool and slip skins off easily,chop.
   4. Add everything but herbs and salt to Dutch Oven or crockpot and simmer 4 hours or set crockpot on high 4 hours.
   5. Remove meat, shred, return to pot, add herbs and salt to taste.
   6. Simmer, covered, 1 more hour.
   7. Serve as stew or do as we do and spoon on to tortilias and roll up folding one end under burrito style.

Notes: Good! I did not roast the peppers as the can of green chiles I used contained roasted peppers.
The stew itself is different from the 'normal' soups we eat so it's a nice change of pace. 
   

Panera's Cream Cheese Potato Soup

Ingredients

4 cups chicken broth
4 cups potatoespeeled and cubed
1/4 cup onionsminced
1/2 teaspoon seasoning salt
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
1/4 teaspoon ground red pepper
1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, cut into chunks
		  
Directions
   1. Combine broth, potatoes, onion, and spices.
   2. Boil on medium heat until potatoes are tender.
   3. Smash a few of the potatoes to release their starch for thickening.
   4. Reduce to low heat.
   5. Add cream cheese.
   6. Heat, stirring frequently, until cheese melts.

      

Cracker Barrel's Hash Browns Casserole - Copycat

Ingredients

2 lbs frozen hash browns
1 (10 1/4 ounce) can cream of chicken soup (or cream of mushroom)
1 pint sour cream
1/2 cup onions, peeled and chopped
2 cups cheddar cheese, grated
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper

Directions

   1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray an 11 x 14 baking dish with cooking spray.
   2. Mix the above ingredients together, place in prepared pan and bake for 45 minutes or until brown on top.


   
Jiffy Corn Muffin Mix - Copycat

    * 3/4 cup all-purpose flour
    * 1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
    * 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
    * 1 tablespoon baking powder
    * 1/4 teaspoon salt
    * 2 tablespoons vegetable oil

Notes: Reviews indicated it might be possible to cut the sugar back to 1 1/2 or 2 tablespoons


Starbucks Outrageous Oatmeal Cookies

1 1/2 cups old fashioned oats (not quick cooking)
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup dark raisins
1/4 cup golden raisins
1/4 cup dried cranberries
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup dark brown sugar, packed
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons dark raisins, for topping
4 tablespoons golden raisins, for topping 

1. Preheat oven to 350°F.
2. Blend oats, flour raisins, cranberries, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside.
3. Beat butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Add egg, cinnamon, and vanilla; beat until combined.
4. Gradually add oat mixture to butter mixture; beat until combined.
5. Combine raisins for topping in separate bowl and set aside.
6. Drop dough by rounded tablespoons, 2 inches apart onto two lightly greased baking sheets.
7. Place 1 mounded tsp of raisins on top of dough.
8. Bake about 12-16 minutes, until cookies are golden brown, but still soft. Cool on sheets before serving
   
   
Peanut Butter Sauce for Ice Cream (Friendly's Copycat)
   
1 cup peanut butter chips
1/2 cup milk
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 

1. Melt 1 cup REESE'S Peanut Butter Chips with milk and whipping cream in medium saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is smooth.
2. Stir in 1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract.
3. Cool to room temperature


Nabisco's Old Fashioned Gingersnaps

1 cup dark brown sugar, packed
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup molasses
1/4 cup shortening
1 tablespoon butter, softened
1 eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 cup water

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
2. Cream together the sugars, molasses, shortening, butter, egg, and vanilla in a large bowl. 
   Beat with an electric mixer until smooth.
3. In another large bowl combine the flour, baking soda, ginger, salt, cinnamon, and cloves.
4. Pour the dry mixture into the wet mixture and beat while adding the water. Continue to mix 
   until ingredients are incorporated.
5. Measure a heaping teaspoon of dough at time. Roll the dough into a sphere between the palms 
   of your hands then press the dough onto the cookie. Flatten to about 1/8-inch thick.
6. Bake cookies for 10 to 14 minutes or until edges begin to brown and cookies are crispy when cool.

   
   
Mcdonald's Sweet and Sour Sauce - Copycat Recipe   
   
# 1/4 cup  apricot preserves
# 1/4 cup peach preserves
# 2 tablespoons light corn syrup (ehhh maybe try honey or something)
# 5 teaspoons white vinegar
# 1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch
# 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce
# 1/2 teaspoon yellow mustard
# 1/4 teaspoon salt
# 1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
# 2 tablespoons water    

1. Place all ingredients in a food processor or blender EXCEPT for the water and puree until the mixture is smooth.
2. Pour the mixture in a saucepan over medium heat. Mix in the water and stir. 
   Bring this mixture to a boil and allow it to boil for five minutes while stirring often. 
   When it is fully thickened, take the pan off the heat source and let it cool.



Olive Garden Lemon Cream Cake (Copycat Recipe)   

FOR THE CAKE
    * 1 (18 1/4 ounce) betty crocker white cake mix
    * 1 1/4 cups water
    * 1/2 cup oil
    * 3 egg whites

FOR THE LEMON CREAM FILLING
    * 1 (8 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
    * 2 cups powdered sugar
    * 4 teaspoons lemon juice
    * 1/4- 1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
    * 1 cup heavy cream

FOR THE CRUMB TOPPING
    * 1/2 cup flour
    * 1/2 cup powdered sugar
    * 1/4 cup cold butter
    * 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
    * powdered sugar (for garnish)    
	
# 1 If you choose to use a different brand of white cake, use the manufacturer's directions instead of mine.
# 2 TO MAKE CAKE:.
# 3 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 10-inch layer cake pan or springform pan.
# 4 Mix the ingredients for the cake following the procedure on box. Pour batter into prepared pan.
# 5 Bake at 350 degrees F for 40-45 minutes. Cool slightly, then remove cake from pan to rack to cool completely.
# 6 TO MAKE THE LEMON CREAM FILLING:.
# 7 In a medium-size bowl, combine cream cheese and 2 cups powdered sugar with an electric mixer until smooth. Mix in lemon juice and extract, if using.
# 8 In a large bowl with an electric mixer on high, whip cream until stiff peaks form. Using a spoon, fold cream cheese mixture into the whipped cream; set aside.
# 9 TO MAKE THE CRUMB TOPPING:.
# 10 In a medium-size bowl, combine flour and 1/2 cup powdered sugar. Add butter and dribble in the vanilla extract. Cut cold butter into flour mixture until mixture is in pieces no larger than a pea. Refrigerate until ready to frost cake.
# 11 TO ASSEMBLE THE CAKE:.
# 12 When the cake is completely cool, cut into two layers. Reserve 1/2 cup of the Lemon Cream Filling. Spread the remainder of the filling on the bottom half of the cake. Place the second half on top. Frost the top and sides of the cake with the remaining 1/2 cup of the Lemon Cream Filling. Cover the top and sides of the cake with the Crumb Topping, pressing it onto the sides to cover.
# 13 Refrigerate for at least 3 hours before serving


Olive Garden Pasta E Fagioli Soup in a Crock Pot (Copycat)

#  2  lbs   ground beef
# 1 onions, chopped
# 3 carrots, chopped
# 4 stalks celery, chopped
# 1 (56 ounce) can diced tomatoes, undrained
# 1 (16 ounce) can red kidney beans, drained
# 1 (16 ounce) can white kidney beans, drained
# 1 (30 ounce) can beef stock
# 3 teaspoons oregano
# 2 teaspoons pepper
# 5 teaspoons parsley
# 1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce
# 1 (20 ounce) jar spaghetti sauce
# 1 (8 ounce) pasta 

   1. Brown beef in a skillet.
   2. Drain fat from beef and add to crock pot with everything except pasta.
   3. Cook on low 7-8 hours or high 4-5 hours.
   4. During last 30 min on high or 1 hour on low, add pasta.


Chili's Salsa
#  1  (14 1/2 ounce) can   tomatoes and green chilies
# 1 (14 1/2 ounce) can whole canned tomatoes (plus the juice)
# 4 teaspoons jalapenos (canned,diced, not pickled)
# 1/4 cup yellow onions (diced)
# 1/2- 3/4 teaspoon garlic salt
# 1/2 teaspoon cumin
# 1/4 teaspoon sugar 

# 1 In food processor place jalapenos and onions.
# 2 Process for just a few seconds.
# 3 Add both cans of tomatoes, salt, sugar, and cumin.
# 4 Process all ingredients until well blended but do not puree.
# 5 Place in covered container and chill.
# 6 A couple of hours of chilling will help blend and enrich the flavor.
# 7 Serve with your favorite thin corn tortilla chips


Waffle House Waffles - Copycat

1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 eggs
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
2 tablespoons butter, softened
2 tablespoons shortening
1/2 cup half-and-half
1/2 cup milk
1/4 cup buttermilk
1/4 teaspoon vanilla 

1. Combine flour, salt and baking soda in a medium bowl and stir to combine.
2. Lightly beat the egg in another medium bowl and combine with sugar, butter, and shortening, mixing well until smooth.
3. Add the half & half, milk, buttermilk and vanilla and mix well.
4. Add the dry flour mixture to the wet mixture while beating and mix until smooth.
5. If you can, cover and chill overnight, though the batter can be used right away.
6. Rub a light coating of vegetable oil on a waffle iron, and preheat it.
7. Leave the batter out of the refrigerator to warm up a bit as your waffle iron is preheating.
8. Spoon 1/3 to 1/2 cup of batter into the waffle iron and cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until the waffles are light brown


Chicken Vino Bianco - Tastes Just Like Olive Garden

2  tablespoons  olive oil or vegetable oil
4 boneless skinless chicken breasts
1 cup flour
1/4- 1/2 cup sliced onions
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 cup white wine (I like Bella Sera Pino Grigio)
salt
pepper
2 cups sliced mushrooms
4 tablespoons butter or margarine
1/2 cup roma tomatoes
cooked linguine or fettuccine 

1. Heat oil in skillet on med-high heat.
2. Lightly dredge chicken breats in flour, season with salt and pepper and brown sides in skillet and remove onto plate until later.
3. Stir in onions, garlic, and butter, cook until tender; then add mushrooms and cook until golden.
4. Stir in wine and bring to a simmer.
5. Return chicken to the pan, and cook over med-high heat until chicken is done; add tomatoes and cook until tender.
6. Serve over cooked fetticuine or liguine noodles


Boursin Cheese

2 garlic cloves
1 (8 ounce) unsalted butter, softened
1 (16 ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh basil
1/2 teaspoon marjoram, fresh or dried
1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh chives
1/4 teaspoon thyme, fresh or dried
1/2 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
1 teaspoon dill weed 

1. Add all ingredients to a blender or food processor and process until smooth and well combined.
2. Spoon mixture into a small serving bowl and chill overnight



Harry & Davids Sweet and Hot Pepper and Onion Relish Clone

6 cups tomatoes, skinned, diced and drained
6 large red peppers, diced (I used multiple colors from garden)
8 cups sugar
2 tablespoons salt
1 (4 ounce) pectin
3 cups white vinegar
1 teaspoon ground red pepper
2 jalapeno peppers, seeded and diced
3 large onions, diced 

1. Recipe called for two small boxes of pectin - I have no idea if a small box is 1 or 2 ounces so I guess at 2 ounces -- so be careful!
2. Mix all ingredients together, except pectin and bring to a boil.
3. Turn down and simmer for 2 - 2 1/2 hours until thickened.
4. Whisk in the 2 boxes of pectin and boil for 1 minute.
5. Pour into sterile jars.
6. Process in pressure canner at #11 for 15 minutes.
7. Notes: I increased the peppers and the ground red. I actually used scotch hots and it still lost some of the heat in the canning process. 
   This always happens to me! Go ahead and be a little generous on the heat because it seems to leave the product after canning. 
   Also, in using the 8 cups of sugar, you need the hot pepper to balance out the sweet.
8. It seems like a long time to cook but it makes a beautiful transformation from orange/red to a deep jewel ruby red. 
   It is necessary to cook it the 2 hours because it becomes thick (unlike fresh salsa that stays thin).
9. Recipe reads that it makes about 7 pints. Not sure about that since I increased the vegetables. 
   I would can in jelly jars because one mixed with 2 (8 oz) packages of cream cheese was plenty of dip.
10. I did not pressure can. I water-boiled for 10 minutes. They all set up perfectly.
11. It was a success. Tasted great, just wish it was a little spicier. I added cayenne to my cream cheese mixture.


Arby's Sauce

1 cup ketchup
2 teaspoons water
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon onion powder
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon Tabasco sauce 

1. Combine all ingredients in small saucepan and cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the sauce begins to boil, 5-10 minutes.
2. Remove sauce from the heat. Cover and allow to cool.
3. Pour into a covered container for storage in the refrigerator.
4. Keeps for 2 months.


Southwest Sauce for Poppers Ala Arby's

# 1/4 cup  buttermilk (Recipe #26123) or crema (Recipe #26123)
# 1/4 cup mayonnaise
# 2 whole chipotle chiles in adobo
# 1 tablespoon adobo seasoning, from can
# 2 large garlic cloves, roasted
# 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard
# 1 teaspoon lime juice 

   1. 1 Place peppers, adobo and buttermilk/crema in container for blender.
   2. 2 Blend until peppers are chopped up and everything is mixed well.
   3. 3 Add mustard, garlic and juice.
   4. 4 Blend for around 30 seconds, or until mixture is smooth.
   5. 5 There will be some small chunks of pepper and garlic, that's ok, it gives texture.
   6. 6 Add mayo, blend briefly, about 20 seconds so mayo doesn't break.
   7. 7 Refrigerate overnight, covered.
   8. 8 Use for dips, sandwiches, whatever.

   
Standard Limoncello Recipe

There are many limoncello recipes available on the internet but since I’m engaged in a 
pseudo-scientific endeavor here, it makes sense to publish my basic recipe. Wanna hear it? Here it go:

Ingredients:

2 750ml bottles of pure grain alcohol
The zest of 17 lemons
3.5 cups of white sugar
5 cups of water

Instructions:

Zest the lemons, put them in a glass one-gallon jar with the alcohol and let it sit for 45 days. 
Then mix the sugar and water in a pot and bring to a boil for 5 minutes. 
Let the mixture sit until completely cool and then mix with the alcohol and lemon infusion. 
Let that mixture sit for 45 days. 
Filter the mixture 4 times using #4 coffee filters. Bottle the liquid and put it in the freezer.

That’s the short, basic version. There’s a lot more to it though and it would be wise of you to check the 
Limoncello Tips page for all the gory details.
   
   
   
Waffle House Waffles
   
50 year old top secret recipe for Waffle House waffles. Waffles are made this way in all 1479 chain stores.
Ingredients:

    * 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
    * 1 tsp. salt
    * 1/2 tsp. baking soda
    * 1 egg
    * 1/2 cup plus 1 Tbsp. granulated sugar
    * 2 Tbsp. butter, softened
    * 2 Tbsp. vegetable shortening
    * 1/2 cup half and half
    * 1/2 cup milk
    * 1/4 cup buttermilk
    * 1/4 tsp. vanilla extract

Directions:

Combine flour, salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Stir to combine.

Lightly beat the egg in another medium bowl. Add the sugar, butter, and shortening. Mix well with an electric mixer 
until smooth. Add the half and half, milk, buttermilk, and vanilla. Mix well

Add the wet mixture to the dry mixture. Mix only briefly. It's okay if there are small lumps in the batter, 
since over beating could produce waffles that are too tough.

Cover and chill over night. (You can use the batter right away if you like, but a good 12 hour chill, makes a 
better batter.)

Rub a light coating of vegetable oil on your waffle iron or use a non-stick spray. Preheat the waffle iron. 
Leave the batter out of the refrigerator to warm up a bit as you waffle iron is preheating.

Spoon 1/3 to 1/2 cup of batter into the waffle iron and cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until the waffles are brown.

Notes: Tasty! Very close to the restaurant recipe.



The Original Applebee's Bourbon Street Steak Marinade

4 tablespoons   Worcestershire sauce
4 tablespoons soy sauce
8 teaspoons chili powder
8 teaspoons minced garlic
3 teaspoons meat tenderizer
4 teaspoons paprika
4 teaspoons ground black pepper
2 teaspoons cayenne pepper
2 teaspoons onion powder
1 teaspoon ground oregano
4 cups water 

Mix and marinate.
Notes: It's a decent marinade. When I made it I didn't have onion powder or meat tenderizer, and
I skipped the red pepper to make it more friendly for kids. It wasn't really recognizable as the
Applebee's Bourbon St. steak but it was tasty nonetheless.


Cracker Barrels White Gravy
#  5  slices  maple bacon
# 1 tablespoon butter
# 1/4 cup diced onion
# 4 tablespoons flour
# 2 1/2-3 1/2 cups milk (depending on how thick you like it)
# 3/4 teaspoon black pepper
# 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1. Brown the bacon in a large skillet, over medium-high heat, and then remove and crumble.
2. Add the butter and onions to the pan, and cook until onions are just browning.
3. Turn the heat to low and add the flour. Cook for about 3 minutes or until the roux smells nutty.
4. Whisk in the milk, salt, and pepper and bring to a boil over low heat, stirring often.
5. Add the crumbled bacon.


Shrimp Creole

Ingredients

1 1/2 cups chopped onions
1 cup finely chopped celery
2 medium green peppers, finely chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 cup butter
2 (8 ounce) cans tomato sauce
1 cup water
2 tablespoons fresh snipped parsley ( or 2 tsp dried)
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon red cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon thyme
2 whole bay leaves, crushed in hand to release flavor
1 lb shrimp, peeled,deveined and raw
3 cups hot cooked long-grain rice
1/4 cup chopped green onions
Tabasco sauce

Directions

   1. In a Dutch oven, cook and stir onion, celery, green pepper and garlic in butter until onion is tender.
   2. Remove from heat; stir in tomato sauce, water and seasonings.
   3. Simmer uncovered 10 minutes.
   4. Place shrimp on top of liquid in pot.
   5. Heat to boiling, cover and cook about 10 minutes until shrimp are opaque and tender.
   6. Stir all.
   7. Serve over hot rice, top with green onions and pass the Tobasco!

Notes: This is very good! It goes together quite simply and doesn't take very long to make. I did not 
  need nearly as much butter as was called for - you only need enough to saute your veggies.
   
   
   
Smoky Shrimp, Hominy and Tortilla Soup
   
    * 4 5-inch-diameter corn tortillas, halved, cut into thin strips

    * 2 tablespoons olive oil
    * 1 cup finely chopped onion
    * 1 cup finely chopped carrot
    * 1/2 cup finely chopped celery
    * 6 garlic cloves, minced
    * 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
    * 7 cups canned low-salt chicken broth
    * 2 15-ounce cans golden hominy, drained
    * 1/3 cup canned crushed tomatoes with added purée
    * 2 teaspoons chopped canned chipotle chilies*

    * 1 pound uncooked small shrimp, peeled, deveined
    * 1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro
    * Lime wedges

Spread corn tortilla strips in single layer on paper towel. Let tortilla strips stand at room temperature overnight to dry.

Heat olive oil in heavy large pot over medium heat. 
Add chopped onion, chopped carrot, chopped celery, minced garlic and dried oregano. 
Sauté until vegetables are crisp-tender, about 10 minutes. 
Add chicken broth, golden hominy, crushed tomatoes and chipotle chilies; bring to simmer. 
Reduce heat, cover and simmer 30 minutes. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. 
(Soup can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cool slightly. Refrigerate soup uncovered until cold, then cover soup and refrigerate.)

Bring soup to simmer over medium heat. 
Add shrimp and cook until opaque in center, stirring occasionally, about 3 minutes. 
Stir in chopped fresh cilantro. 

Top servings with dried tortilla strips. 
Pass lime wedges separately.

Notes: This is good! Very different from what we normally have. The hominy is like
small corn dumplings. The shrimp as the meat in the soup is a nice change of pace as well.
Doesn't do so great in the freezer unless you eat it quickly, though.



Refried Beans Without the Refry 

Ingredients

    * 1 onion, peeled and halved
    * 3 cups dry pinto beans, rinsed
    * 1/2 fresh jalapeno pepper, seeded and chopped
    * 2 tablespoons minced garlic
    * 5 teaspoons salt
    * 1 3/4 teaspoons fresh ground black pepper
    * 1/8 teaspoon ground cumin, optional
    * 9 cups water

1. Place the onion, rinsed beans, jalapeno, garlic, salt, pepper, and cumin into a slow cooker. 
   Pour in the water and stir to combine. Cook on High for 8 hours, adding more water as needed. 
   Note: if more than 1 cup of water has evaporated during cooking, then the temperature is too high.
2. Once the beans have cooked, strain them, and reserve the liquid. 
   Mash the beans with a potato masher, adding the reserved water as needed to attain desired consistency.

Notes: Good and nobody missed the refrying step.   


Chipotle Salsa

1 14.5 oz can of peeled whole tomatoes
2 peppers from a can of chipotle peppers in adobo sauce 
1/4 cup fresh lime juice
2-3 cloves of garlic
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 cup cilantro

Blend!

Notes: Original recipe called for 1 chipotle but 2 seemed much better. I also bumped up the garlic
by a couple of cloves. I might try fire roasted tomatoes next time. Overall a very good and simple
salsa. I think you could easily substitute fresh chili peppers of any variety if you'd prefer something
other than the smokey chipotle flavor.



Salsa Verde

tomatillos (about 12)
2 jalapenos for every 3 tomatillos
4-6 cloves garlic, peeled
half a bunch cilantro, rinsed and ready for use
2 limes
salt

1. Husk tomatillos, rinse. Put in pot.
2. Remove stems and membrane from jalapenos. Put in pot.
3. Cover tomatillos and jalapenos with water, boil for about 10 minutes.
4. Use spoon to remove tomatillos and jalapenos from water. Save cooking water.
5. Put tomatillos, jalapenos, cilantro and garlic into blender. (may need multiple batches - divide ingredients equally)
6. Add lime and salt to taste. If salsa is too thick add some cooking water to right consistency.

Notes: Good and really couldn't be much easier. I was concerned about the amount of jalapenos involved and didn't want
       to flame anybody out. However, they really lose potency during the cooking process so use the recommended
	   amount without fear.



Brazilian Feijoada

Ingredients
    * 2  cups  dried black beans
    * 4  slices applewood-smoked bacon
    * 1  pound  boneless pork shoulder (Boston butt), trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch cubes
    * 3/4  teaspoon  salt, divided
    * 1/2  teaspoon  freshly ground black pepper, divided
    * 3  bone-in beef short ribs, trimmed (about 2 pounds)
    * 3  cups  finely chopped onion (about 2 medium)
    * 1 1/4  cups  fat-free, lower-sodium chicken broth
    * 4  garlic cloves, minced
    * 1  (9-ounce) smoked ham hock
    * 1  tablespoon  white vinegar
    * 8  orange wedges
	
1. Place beans in a small saucepan; cover with cold water. Bring to a boil; cook for 2 minutes. 
   Remove from heat; cover and let stand 1 hour. Drain.

2. Cook bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until crisp. Remove bacon from pan; crumble. 
   Sprinkle pork evenly with 1/8 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Increase heat to medium-high. 
   Add pork to drippings in skillet; sauté 8 minutes, turning to brown on all sides. 
   Transfer pork to a 6-quart electric slow cooker. Sprinkle ribs evenly with 1/8 teaspoon salt and remaining 1/4 teaspoon pepper. 
   Add ribs to skillet; cook 3 minutes on each side or until browned. Place ribs in slow cooker. 
   Add drained beans, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, onion, and next 3 ingredients (through ham hock) to slow cooker, stirring to combine. 
   Cover and cook on LOW 8 hours or until beans and meat are tender.

3. Remove ribs from slow cooker; let stand 15 minutes. Remove meat from bones; shred meat with 2 forks. Discard bones. 
   Discard ham hock. Return beef to slow cooker. Stir in vinegar and crumbled bacon. Serve with orange wedges.

Notes: Really good! We had a pork shoulder that was larger than 1 pound so we skipped the ham hock.
       It's good enough to feed to company.

	   
	   
Roasted salmon with marinated fennel and thyme

  Marinated fennel:

  3 pounds fennel (3 bulbs)
  2 onions, sliced
  4 garlic cloves, sliced
  2 lemons, sliced lengthwise into thin strips and seeds removed
  4 sprigs fresh thyme
  2/3 cup Passover white wine vinegar (optional)
  Pinch of sugar dissolved in 1 teaspoon water
  Coarse sea salt or kosher salt
  Coarsely ground black pepper
  Extra-virgin olive oil to cover

  1. Wash, dry and trim the fennel stalks till they meet the top and sides of the bulb. 
     Remove dry or pulpy outer leaves, stalks and edible leaves. 
     Discard or save the outer leaves and stalks for soup and the leaves for garnish.

  2. Slice the bulbs thinly crosswise. Place the slices in a large glass or non-reactive 
     bowl with the onion, garlic, lemon and thyme. Mix in vinegar and sugar water. 
     Season with 11/2 teaspoons salt and several grinds of pepper and cover with extra-virgin 
     olive oil (or half olive oil, half vegetable oil), making sure that the olive oil covers the fennel.

  3. Submerge the vegetables using a dish smaller than the circumference of the bowl, weighted 
     with a kettle half-filled with water. Set aside for several hours at room temperature or, 
     if making the day before, place in a tightly closed jar and refrigerate. This makes about 3 
     quarts marinated fennel, more than is needed for the remainder of the recipe. The salad 
     will keep, covered and refrigerated, for 3 to 5 days; drain the salad before serving.

  Salmon and assembly:

  Several bunches of fresh thyme
  1 (2-pound) center-cut, skin-on salmon fillet
  Coarse salt to taste
  4 cups drained marinated fennel, divided
  1/3 cup oil from marinated fennel

  1. Heat the oven to 400 degrees. Arrange the thyme sprigs in single layer in center of a 
     heavy baking sheet. Place the salmon, skin side down, atop the thyme. Season the salmon 
	 with half teaspoon salt, or to taste. Spread 2 cups drained marinated fennel (including 
	 lemon slices and thyme sprigs) over the fish. Drizzle the oil over the fish. The fish 
	 can be prepared up to 8 hours in advance, covered and refrigerated.

  2. Roast the salmon until the outside of the fish is opaque and the fennel salad is just 
     beginning to caramelize, about 15 minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 200 degrees 
	 and continue to cook until the salmon has reached desired doneness, 5 to 10 minutes. 
	 Remove from heat and serve with the remaining marinated fennel.	   
	 
	 
Easy Lemon Bars	 

Crust
    * 1 3/4 cups (220g) flour
    * 2/3 cup (83g) confectioner's sugar 
    * 1/4 cup (30g) cornstarch
    * 3/4 teaspoon salt	 
    * 12 tablespoons (170g) cool butter
Filling	
    * 4 eggs
    * 1 1/3 cups (330g) granulated sugar
    * 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
    * 2 teaspoons grated lemon zest from 2 large lemons
    * 3/4 cups (6oz) lemon juice from 4 large lemons
    * 1 1/3 cup (11 oz) milk
    * dash salt
	 
1. Line 13x9 baking dish or jelly roll pan with double layer of parchment (or 1 foil/1 parchment)
2. In food processor pulse together first four ingredients, then add butter. Pulse into coarse
   crumbs. Optionally add 1-2 tablespoons cold vodka or cold water to improve dough texture.
3. Press into bottom and up sides of baking dish. Chill in fridge for half an hour. Preheat
   oven to 350 F.
4. Bake crust for 20 minutes, until light golden in color, turning pan half way through baking time 
   for even browning. While the crust is baking, make the filling.
5. Whisk together all filling ingredients. Pour into warm crust. Bake for 20 minutes or until firm set.
6. Cool for at least 30 minutes. When cool lift from pan and cut into bars. Dust with powdered sugar.



Broccoli Salad

Ingredients:
    * 2 bunches raw broccoli cut into bite-sized pieces
    * 6 slices bacon, cooked and crumbled
    * 1/2 small red onion, chopped fine (optional or use green onion)
    * 1 cup raisins

Dressing
    * 2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
    * 1 cup reduced-fat mayonnaise or 1 cup light mayonnaise
    * 1/4 cup sugar
    * 1/8 teaspoon celery seed (optional) 

Whisk dressing together. Add everything else. Mix.

Very good; needs a good amount of broccoli unless you want a very creamy
salad. If you just have one bunch of broccoli halve the dressing. Sunflower
or sesame seed can also be added.



Mojo Beef Kabobs

MOJO Sauce
    * 1/4 cup fresh orange juice
    * 1/4 cup fresh lime juice
    * 3 tablespoons olive oil
    * 3 tablespoons fresh oregano, finely chopped
    * 2 tablespoons fresh parsley, finely chopped
    * 1 teaspoon ground cumin
    * 1 garlic clove, minced
    * 1/4 teaspoon salt

STEAK
    * 1 lb boneless beef top sirloin steak, cut into bite size pieces
    * 1 teaspoon ground pepper
    * 1 large lime, cut into wedges
    * 1 small onion, cut into wedges
    * 1 (10 ounce) container cherry tomatoes 

# 1 Whisk together sauce ingredients in a small bowl.
# 2 Pour only half of the Mojo sauce as a marinade over the beef in a medium bowl or food storage bag; cover or seal.
# 3 Cover the remaining sauce; refrigerate both at least 24 hours.
# 4 Heat broiler or grill.
# 5 Remove beef from marinade; discard marinade.
# 6 Season beef with the pepper; thread on skewers, alternate with lime and onion wedges.
# 7 Thread tomatoes evely onto separate skewers.
# 8 Let reserved marinade come into room temperature.
# 9 Broil or grill kebobs, turning occasionally until beef is brown and firm to the touch, about 10 minutes fro medium-rare.
# 10 Tomatoes are slightly softened after 4 minutes of grilling.
# 11 Serve drizzled with the reserved sauce.


Chinese Hot Mustard

Ingredients:
    * 1/4 cup boiling water
    * 1/4 cup dry English-style mustard
    * 1 tablespoon oil 

# 1 Gradually add the boiling water to the dry english mustard.
# 2 Then add the oil, stir well.



How To Make Homemade Orange Rolls
http://www.instructables.com/id/How-To-Make-Homemade-Orange-Rolls/?ALLSTEPS



Gyro Meat

1 lb ground beef
1/2 lb ground lamb
3-4 cloves garlic, minced
1 T black pepper
1 t rosemary
1 t marjorum
1/2 t ground cumin
1 egg
2/3 cup bread crumbs

Mix thoroughly. Cover and chill 1-2 hours. Form thin (1 inch) loaf in greased pan.
Bake at 350 F for 50 minutes. Cool fully. Slice into thin strips.
Gyro: Pita bread, several strips of meat, lettuce, red onion, tomato, tzatziki



Seven-chile chili

Ingredients:
6 anchos
2 pasilla
2 costeñas
2 guajillos
4 chiles de arbol
4 pieces of bacon
4 pounds of chuck roast, cut into 1/4 inch cubes
1 large onion diced
6 cloves of garlic, crushed
1 cup of brewed coffee
1 bottle of beer
2 cups of water
1/2 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp clove
1/2 tsp allspice
1 tsp coriander
1/2 tsp cayenne
1 tablespoon cumin
(For all spices, please feel free to add more to taste throughout cooking if you like.)
2 chipotles in adobo
Salt to taste
1/4 cup masa harina
1/3 Mexican hot chocolate tablet, grated

Method:
Heat the dried chiles (anchos, pasillas, costenos, guajillos and chiles de arbol) in a dry, 
cast-iron skillet on medium for a couple of minutes on each side. Turn off the heat and then 
add enough water to the skillet to cover the chiles, and let them soak for half an hour.

Meanwhile, in a large heavy pot, such as a Dutch oven, fry up your bacon. When done, remove 
from pan and crumble (Don’t worry if you opt to eat a slice—you deserve it!) and leave the 
bacon grease in the pot (it should be about 3) tablespoons. In the pot, cook your beef in 
the bacon grease on medium heat, a few minutes on each side until lightly browned. You will 
probably have to cook these in two batches.

Remove the browned beef from the pot, and add your onions. Cook on medium until clear. Add 
the garlic and cook for another minute. Put the beef back in the pot, and mix in the coffee, 
the beer, two cups of water, bacon crumbles and the dry spices. Turn the heat up to high.

Your soaking chiles should be soft by now. Drain them and discard the soaking water (it will 
be bitter) and place them in a blender along with the canned chipotle chiles and one cup of 
fresh water. Puree until nice and smooth and then add the chile puree to the chili pot.

When chili begins to boil, turn heat down to low and let simmer for five hours, stirring 
occasionally. Taste it once an hour, and if the flavors are too muted, feel free to add more 
of any of the spices. Also, it starts to get too dry, add more liquid (your choice!).

After five hours, take a Mexican hot chocolate disc, and finely grate 1/3 of it into the pot. 
Scoop out 1 cup of broth and add the masa harina. Mix it well and then reincorporate it back 
into the pot. Stir until chili is thickened.

Let the chili simmer for another half hour or so. When done, serve with cheddar, onions and 
tortillas.

Note: If you can't find all of these chiles, I would just use the more readily available anchos 
and chipotles. I'd use 6-8 anchos, following the same soaking and pureeing method, and two chipotles.



Samoa Bundt Cake 

Batter #1
    1 stick of butter, softened
    1 cup of dark brown sugar
    2 eggs
    3/4 cup ap flour
    3/4 tsp baking powder
    1/2 tsp baking soda
    1/4 tsp salt
    1/2 cup whole milk

Batter #2
    1 cup sugar
    3/4 cup + 2 T ap flour
    1/2 cup + 2 T cocoa powder
    3/4 tsp baking powder
    1/2 tsp baking soda
    1 egg
    1/4 cup oil
    1/2 tsp salt
    1 tsp vanilla
    1/2 cup boiling water
    1/2 cup milk

for the frosting
    1 can of sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 cup confectioners sugar
    2 T vanilla extract
    2 sticks butter, softened
    1/2 tsp salt
    1 cup toasted coconut
    topping 1 1/2 cups toasted coconut
    1/2 cup chocolate chips, melted

Before you do anything, either stick the whole, unopened can of condensed milk in your crock pot and submerge 
it by at least 3 inches and cook it on medium for 10 hours or on high for 7. Alternatively, you can boil it 
on the stove FULLY SUBMERGED AT ALL TIMES for 4 hours. Let it cool.

Preheat the oven to 350F

Prepare each batter separately. This is a marble cake. For each cake type, beat butter (or oil) and sugar(s) on 
medium high until fluffy. Add in eggs one at a time mixing well. Add in milk and vanilla (if applicable) and mix 
until well combined. In separate bowls sift together dry ingredients for each batter. Add  dry ingredients to wet 
ingredients slowly and mix until well combined.

(add boiling water for cocoa cake HERE)

Grease and flour the bundt pan WELL

layer the cake pouring some of the brown sugar batter, then cocoa batter, then brown sugar, until both batter bowls 
are empty. Tap bundt pan on the counter a couple times to remove bubbles. Bake approximately 1 hour or until skewer 
inserted in center comes out clean. (Mine only took about 50 minutes)

LET COOL ENTIRELY

For the frosting

toast sweetened flaked coconut either on a cookie sheet in the oven on 350F tossing occasionally or in a dry skillet 
constantly stirring until desired color is reached. Beat cooled cooked condensed milk, butter, confectioners sugar, 
vanilla and salt for 3 minutes. Add in 1 cup toasted coconut. Chill for 1 hour

frost cake with frosting and top with remaining toasted coconut.

melt chocolate chips in the microwave, place in a pastry bag with a small tip or ziploc bag with a corner cut out 
about 1/4? up from the corner, and drizzle stripes on the cake.


Chimichurri Sauce

    1/4 cup hot water
    2 teaspoons dried oregano
    2 teaspoons kosher salt
    1 1/3 cups loosely packed flat-leaf parsley leaves
    2/3 cup loosely packed cilantro leaves
    6 medium garlic cloves , minced or pressed through garlic press (about 2 tablespoons)
    1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
    1/4 cup red wine vinegar
    1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil

Combine hot water, oregano, and salt in small bowl; let stand 5 minutes 
to soften oregano. Pulse parsley, cilantro, garlic, and red pepper flakes in food 
processor until coarsely chopped, about ten 1-second pulses. Add water mixture and 
vinegar and pulse briefly to combine. Transfer mixture to medium bowl and slowly whisk 
in oil until incorporated and mixture is emulsified. Cover with plastic wrap and let 
stand at room temperature at least 1 hour (if preparing sauce in advance, refrigerate 
and bring to room temperature before using).


Chimichurri Sauce 2

    1 cup firmly packed fresh flat-leaf parsley, trimmed of thick stems
    3-4 garlic cloves
    2 Tbsps fresh oregano leaves (can sub 2 teaspoons dried oregano)
    1/2 cup olive oil
    2 Tbsp red or white wine vinegar
    1 teaspoon sea salt
    1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
	
Finely chop the parsley, fresh oregano, and garlic (or process in a food processor several pulses). Place in a small bowl.
Stir in the olive oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes. Adjust seasonings.

Notes: Very good with steak, extreme garlic flavor!



Creole Garlic Dip/Mayo
2 cup or so of mayo in a bowl. 
4 or 5 cloves of garlic, minced

This is the base of the recipe and you can really go anywhere from here. The garlic makes 
the mayo a bit spicy. From there, I will had a few dashes of Tony Chachere, or you can 
use paprika, garlic powder, lemon pepper, chili powder, red pepper (flakes or powder) -- 
to taste. Don't go overboard with the salt, though. You can get even more fancy with 
minced parsley. Paprika gives you these pretty little red "dots". You can also add in a 
little mustard (ground, or yellow). This goes great on a sandwich, to dip artichoke 
into, on BBQ as an alternative to bbq sauce, seafood, etc.


Teriyaki Sauce:

1 part Soy Sauce
1 part Sugar
1 part Mirin

vs.

Teriyaki Marinade

1 1/4 – 1 1/2 pounds either rib eye steak cut into 1/4? thick slices or chicken thighs
1 cup soy sauce
2/3 cup sugar
1" piece of ginger, smashed, and sliced
2 large (or 3 medium) cloves of garlic, smashed and sliced
1 stalk of green onion (white and green parts), chopped

Stir all ingredients together in a dish that is large enough for marinating (I use an 
  8" x 8" glass Pyrex). Add the meat and marinate between one and three hours. Grill meat. 



Sweet and Spicy Chicken Drumsticks

    1/2 cup Sriracha
    1/2 cup unseasoned rice vinegar
    1/4 cup mirin (sweet Japanese rice wine)
    1/4 cup red currant or strawberry jelly
    12 large chicken drumsticks
    Kosher salt
    1 cup rice flour
    1 tablespoon cornstarch

Bring Sriracha, rice vinegar, mirin, and jelly to a boil in a small heavy saucepan over high heat. 
Reduce heat to medium; simmer, adjusting heat if necessary, until mixture is thick and reduced to 
3/4 cup, about 10 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover; chill. Rewarm before using.

Place drumsticks in a large bowl and season generously with salt. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour. 
Preheat oven to 450°F. Whisk rice flour and cornstarch in a medium bowl. Place a wire rack on a 
rimmed baking sheet. Using a paper towel, pat drumsticks dry. Dredge in rice flour mixture, shaking 
off excess. Arrange on prepared rack.

Roast drumsticks, turning frequently, until skin is browned and crisp, 50-60 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can 
be made 1 day ahead. Let cool, cover, and chill. Rewarm in a 450°F oven for 10-15 minutes before 
continuing.

Combine hot drumsticks and 1/4 cup sauce in a large bowl; toss to coat. Return drumsticks to rack 
and roast, turning once, until skin is crisp and sauce is beginning to brown, 8-9 minutes. Brush 
with additional sauce and serve remaining sauce alongside.


Slow Cooker Lamb Curry

11/2 Pds of Cooked Lamb
1 Onion, Chopped
2 Cups of Broth (Beef or Chicken)
6 Oz. of Mushrooms, Chopped
2 Tbsp of Curry
1 Tbsp of Rosemary
2 Cloves of Garlic
2 Tbsp of Butter
2 Tbsp of Olive Oil
1 Tbsp of Garam Masala
1 tsp of Ginger
1 tsp of Salt
1/2 tsp of Fennel
1 Tbsp of Oregano
2 Large Baking Potatoes, Cubed
1 Can of Tomato Paste
1 Bunch of Cilantro, Chopped
1/2 Cup of Plain Yogurt

Pull out your slow cooker and add everything into the pot with the exception of the yogurt.
Turn on your pot, setting it on low for the next 4-6 hours or high for the next 3-5.  
Walk away and don’t look back until it’s time for dinner.
When the magic hour arrives, cook up a batch of rice and while that’s in progress, you’ll 
simply open up your slow cooker, grab your yogurt and stir it into the curry.



Homemade tortillas

3 cups flour 1 cup water 1/3 cup vegetable oil (or corn, canola, etc) 1/2 tsp salt

Mix into a big dough ball. Tear off 2-3 in chunks and roll into balls. I usually get 8 to 10 
tortilla balls off one batch. Flour your workspace and roll out the tortilla balls to desired 
thickness. When they are all rolled out, toss them on a griddle one at a time. You want them 
to have golden brown spots. They will bubble a little.



Fish Tacos
   
    1 pound firm white fish, such as tilapia, snapper, cod, mahi mahi, or catfish
    2 limes, halved
    1 garlic clove, minced
    1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
    1/4 teaspoon chili powder
    2 tablespoons vegetable oil, plus more for oiling the grill grates
    Kosher salt
    Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 small head of green or red cabbage (about 14 ounces), cored and thinly sliced
    1/2 red onion, thinly sliced
    1/4 cup cilantro, coarsely chopped
    6 to 8 soft (6-inch) corn tortillas
    Sliced avocado, for garnish (optional)
    Guacamole, for garnish (optional)
    Salsa, for garnish (optional)
    Sour cream, for garnish (optional)
    Hot sauce, for garnish (optional)

Place the fish in a baking dish and squeeze a lime half over it. Add the garlic, cumin, chili 
  powder, and 1 tablespoon of the oil. Season with salt and pepper and turn the fish in the 
  marinade until evenly coated. Refrigerate and let marinate at least 15 minutes. Meanwhile, 
  make the slaw and warm the tortillas.
Combine the cabbage, onion, and cilantro in a large bowl and squeeze a lime half over it. Drizzle 
  with the remaining 1 tablespoon oil, season with salt and pepper, and toss to combine. Taste 
  and add more salt and pepper if necessary; set aside.
Warm the tortillas in a heated medium frying pan over medium-high heat. Wrap the warm tortillas 
  in a clean dishcloth and set aside while you prepare the fish.
Brush the grates of a grill pan or outdoor grill with oil and heat over medium-high heat until 
  hot. Remove the fish from the marinade and place on the grill.
Cook without moving until the underside of the fish has grill marks and is white and opaque on 
  the bottom, about 3 minutes. Flip and grill the other side until white and opaque, about 2 to 
  3 minutes more. (It’s OK if it breaks apart while you’re flipping.) Transfer the fish to a plate.
Taste the slaw again and season as needed with more lime juice. Slice the remaining lime halves 
  into wedges and serve with the tacos. To construct a taco, break up some of the cooked fish, 
  place it in a warm tortilla, and top it with slaw and any optional garnishes.


Fish Tacos

For Sauce:
1 cup plain yogurt
1 lime, juiced
1/2 teaspoon cumin
1/4 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 cup cilantro, chopped
1 teaspoon honey

For Fish:
1 lime, juiced
3 tablespoons honey
1 teaspoon cumin
1/2 teaspoon chili powder
salt and pepper, to taste
1 cup flour
2 4-6oz. mahi mahi fillets, sliced into 1/2 thick pieces
vegetable oil

1 cup cabbage, any color, shredded
Small flour tortillas
Chopped cilantro, lime wedges, and sliced green onions for garnish.

Directions
Combine all sauce ingredients in a small bowl and set aside.

In a shallow dish, stir together lime juice, honey, and spices. Add fish slices and toss to coat. 
Let marinate for 10-15 minutes.

You can season your flour with more spice if you’d like. Take fish out of marinade and lightly toss 
in flour. Shake off excess.

Heat a few tablespoons oil in a large skillet. Add coated fish pieces and cook until golden and 
cooked through, about 2-3 minutes per side (will vary depending on how you sliced your fish).

Heat tortillas in a small pan until warm and bubbly. Keep in a warm oven until ready to serve. 
Top with fish, cabbage, cilantro, green onion, and yogurt sauce. Enjoy! 



Russian Cabbage Soup

    1 1/2 pounds ground lean beef
    1 (14.5 ounce) can diced tomatoes
    1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce
    4 cubes beef bouillon
    2 medium carrots, shredded
    1 onion, chopped
    2 tablespoons white vinegar (or more to taste)
    1/4 cup white sugar (originally 1/2 cup)
    1 1/2 teaspoons salt
    1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
    2 quarts water, divided
    3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
    1 head cabbage, cored and cut into wedges

Crumble the ground beef into a large pot. Brown with carrot and onion.
Add the diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, beef bouillon cubes, vinegar, sugar, 
salt and pepper. Pour in 1 quart of water, and bring to a boil. 
Once the soup comes to a boil, cover and simmer for 30 minutes over low heat.
Pour in another quart of water, and return to a slow boil. Add garlic and cabbage. 
Simmer for 25 minutes, until cabbage is tender. Ladle into soup bowls to serve.

Notes: Very good! It's like having stuffed cabbage roll soup without the rice.
We liked it with quite a bit more vinegar (probably 6 tablespoons) and only a small
amount of sugar (probably 1.5 tablespoons). I think a slightly larger can of tomato
sauce would have helped thicken the base better. I only had half a head of cabbage
so I threw a bunch of kale in; it worked great.



Hungarian Chicken Paprikash (Csirkepaprikás)

    2 chicken legs
    1 tablespoon butter
    1 large onion (or two small onions), roughly chopped
    1 white pepper (I used a green pepper instead), chopped
    [optional] 1 roma tomato, chopped
    2 tablespoons paprika (Hungarian sweet paprika preferred)
    1/2 teaspoon chilli powder
    1 teaspoon salt
    1/2 teaspoon black pepper
    3/4 cup chicken stock
    1/4 cup sour cream

    In a heated pan, add butter, and swirl the butter around the pan.
    When the butter starts to brown, add the chicken pieces, skin side down onto the pan.
    Turn the chicken pieces over when they start to brown, and cook the other side until brown as well.
    When the chicken is brown on all sides, remove from the pan, but save the drippings.

	To the remaining butter/chicken fat mixture, add the chopped onions and fry them.
    When the onions are soft and slightly transparent, add the green pepper and tomato to the pan.
    Continue frying, and make sure nothing gets burnt.

	When the vegetables are soft, add the paprika, chili powder, salt and pepper to the pan.
    Fry the vegetables with the seasoning until evenly combined.
    Add the chicken pieces back to the pan, then add the chicken stock.
    Bring the contents of the pan to a boil, then cover, and set the heat on low.
    Simmer for about 30 minutes, or until the chicken pieces are cooked and the juices run clear.
	
	When the chicken is cooked, remove the chicken and place the chicken on top your choice of starch. 
	(I used Hungarian dumplings or nokedli. Recipe below.)
    Turn off the heat, and let the vegetables cool down for 5 minutes.
    After 5 minutes, add the sour cream to the pan, and stir to combine.
    Spoon the sauce over the chicken and nokedli, and serve.

	Notes: Wait, 2 chicken legs? That can't be right!
	
	
Hungarian Dumplings (Nokedli)

    1 cup flour
    2 eggs
    1/4 cup plain yoghut or sour cream
    pinch of salt

    Add all the ingredients in a mixing bowl, and mix with a spatula until a soft dough is formed.

    [Traditionally, the nokedli is made using a nokedli press, or by hand. Unfortunately, I'm too 
	lazy to do each tiny piece of nokedli individually, and do not want to eat dinner the next morning, 
	so I decided to use a shortcut by squeezing the dough through a strainer. A nokedli press is 
	similar to a potato ricer, so that would perfectly as well, but I don't own one.]
    Add water to a pot and bring it to a simmer.
    Press and squeeze the dough through a strainer, and into the simmering water.
    Remove the nokedli pieces when they start to float.
    You now have nokedli for your Chicken Paprikash, or just to fry with some salt, pepper and cheese.
	

Piroshki

    1 1/2 pounds ground beef
    1 onion, finely chopped
    1 teaspoon salt
    ground black pepper to taste
    dried dill weed to taste
     
    1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast
    1/4 cup warm water
    1 cup milk
    3 eggs
    1/2 cup vegetable oil
    2 tablespoons granulated sugar
    1 teaspoon salt
    4 cups all-purpose flour
    3 cups oil for frying

    In a medium skillet over medium heat, cook the ground beef until evenly browned; drain. 
	Stir in the onion and cook with the beef until translucent. Sprinkle in salt, pepper and 
	dill weed to taste. Allow to cool before using.
    
	Dissolve the yeast in the 1/4 cup of warm water and place in a warm location until frothy, 
	about 10 to 15 minutes. In a medium saucepan over low heat, warm the milk and gently whisk 
	in the eggs, oil, sugar and salt. Remove from heat.
	
    Place half the flour in a large mixing bowl and gradually stir in the milk mixture. Then add 
	the yeast solution alternately with the remaining flour, stirring after each addition. Mix well. 
	Knead until the dough forms a ball and does not stick to the bowl. (Note: Start with the 4 cups 
	of flour. You may need to add more, a little at a time, as you knead the dough). Cover the bowl 
	with a clean cloth. Set in a warm location and allow to rise until doubled in volume.
	
    Remove dough from bowl and place on a lightly floured surface. Pinch off pieces approximately 
	the size of golf balls. Roll the pieces into disks about 3 1/2 to 4 inches in diameter.
	
    Fill center of each disk with a heaping tablespoon of the cooled meat mixture. Fold disks over 
	the mixture and firmly pinch edges to seal. Arrange on a flat surface and allow to sit approximately 
	10 minutes.
	
    In an large, heavy skillet or deep fryer, heat the oil to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Deep fry 
	the piroshki in batches until golden brown on one side; gently turn and fry the other side. 
	Remove and let drain on a plate lined with paper towels.

	Note: Reviewers of this recipe reported baking the piroshki at 400F for 15-20 minutes rather than frying.
	
	
Russian Zharkoye

1/2 lb beef
5 potatoes
1 onion
2 tbsp butter
1 carrot
1 parsley root
1 celery root
2 garlic cloves
1 tbsp sour cream
2 tbsp chopped green dill and parsley
salt
ground pepper

Peel potatoes, wash, cut into cubes and fry in butter until light golden. Slice onion and fry in butter until 
golden. Cut carrot into small cubes and fry in butter. Cube beef and fry in butter until light brown. In a 
ceramic pot, put beef, potatoes, onion, carrot, roots, garlic, season with salt and pepper and pour over a 
little broth. Stew in the oven on average heat for 30 minutes. 10 minutes before, add sour cream and sprinkle 
with green. Serve Zharkoye with salad from fresh vegetables, pickles, sauerkraut and green.


Salade Russe

Eggs, Peas, and Apples over Spinach!

Use a dill/mustard vinaigrette if you like, or mix lightly with mayo.


Gorky's Chicken

3 lb chicken breasts boneless
2 oz vodka heated
1 tbsp tomato paste
5 tbsp butter
1 tbsp flour
1 1/2 c sour cream or plain yogurt
4 tbsp feta cheese crumbled
1/2 tsp pepper
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tbsp dried parsley
1 ea garlic clove minced
3/4 c chicken broth
1/4 c onion chopped

Brown chicken in butter with the chopped onions. 
Pour heated vodka over the chicken & onions. Add the garlic, salt, pepper, & parsley. 
Remove chicken from the pan, dredge in the flour, add the tomato paste, and chicken 
broth to the pan. 
Stir-in the sour cream and feta cheese. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Add the chicken again to the mixture, reduce heat and simmer for 20-30 minutes. 
Arrange the chicken in a deep casserole dish. 

NOTE*** At this point this dish may be frozen or refrigerated for later cooking to finish. 
Pour the mixture over the chicken and cook in preheated 350 degree F oven and cook for 20 minutes or 
until brown on top.


Asian Chicken Marinade:

1 clean jar with lid (about 8 or 12 oz)
1/3 of a jar of veg oil
1/3 of a jar of soy sauce
3 tbsp of lime juice
2 tbsp of garlic salt
1 tbsp of black pepper
1 tbsp of chopped ginger
1 tbsp of chopped garlic
1 tbsp of honey or sugar
1 teaspoon of mustard powder
1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper

Slice chicken into 1/2" x 1/2" x 3" portions. Marinate for 1+ hours.
Thread chicken onto skewers. Grill or broil.



Easy Homemade Spaghetti Sauce

    2 large cans of Hunts tomato puree
    2 26 oz cans whole, stewed tomatoes (in juice)
    1 small can tomato puree
    1 large yellow onion, diced
    3-4 cloves garlic, minced
    Olive oil
    Parmesan cheese
    2-4 tablespoons butter.
    Salt and pepper
    Fresh basil if you can.

Sautee your onions and garlic in olive oil on medium heat until translucent. Add about 1-2 tablespoons of 
the tomato paste and cook another 2 minutes. Add the whole tomatoes with the juice and turn the heat medium 
high. Stir occasionally for the next 4 minutes. Add tomato sauce, bring to just about a boil on medium-high 
heat and then lower heat super low and simmer for about 30 minutes.

Cook your favorite pasta variety and save about 1/2 cup of the pasta water. At this point you'll want to 
season your sauce with salt and pepper (and crushed red pepper if you are like me).

Add your water, butter, a nice handful of the parmesan cheese, and a good 1/4 cup of olive oil to the sauce 
and stir to mix. Add some chopped fresh basil (you can get it super cheap at the farmer's market) and toss 
with your pasta. Serve immediately with some garlic bread.


Shakshuka

    1 tbsp olive oil
    1/2 medium brown or white onion, peeled and diced
    1 clove garlic, minced
    1 medium green or red bell pepper, chopped
    4 cups ripe diced tomatoes, or 2 cans (14 oz. each) diced tomatoes
    2 tbsp tomato paste
    1 tsp chili powder (mild)
    1 tsp cumin
    1 tsp paprika
    Pinch of cayenne pepper (or more to taste-- spicy!)
    Pinch of sugar (optional, to taste)
    Salt and pepper to taste
    5-6 eggs
    1/2 tbsp fresh chopped parsley (optional, for garnish)

Heat a deep, large skillet or sauté pan on medium. Slowly warm olive oil in the pan. Add chopped onion, sauté 
for a few minutes until the onion begins to soften. Add garlic and continue to sauté till mixture is fragrant. 

Add the bell pepper, sauté for 5-7 minutes over medium until softened.

Add tomatoes and tomato paste to pan, stir till blended. Add spices and sugar, stir well, and allow mixture to 
simmer over medium heat for 5-7 minutes till it starts to reduce. At this point, you can taste the mixture and 
spice it according to your preferences. Add salt and pepper to taste, more sugar for a sweeter sauce, or more 
cayenne pepper for a spicier shakshuka.

Crack the eggs, one at a time, directly over the tomato mixture, making sure to space them evenly over the 
sauce. I usually place 4-5 eggs around the outer edge and 1 in the center. The eggs will cook "over easy" style 
on top of the tomato sauce.

Cover the pan. Allow mixture to simmer for 10-15 minutes, or until the eggs are cooked and the sauce has slightly 
reduced. Garnish with the chopped parsley, if desired. 

Notes: Good! I used picante paprika and skipped the cayenne. I did not add any sugar and we did not miss it. This
is a very good dinner.


Hungarian Mushroom Soup

    4 tablespoons unsalted butter
    2 cups chopped onions
    1 pound fresh mushrooms, sliced
    2 teaspoons dried dill weed
    1 tablespoon paprika
    1 tablespoon soy sauce
    2 cups chicken broth
    1 cup milk
    3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
    1 teaspoon salt
    ground black pepper to taste
    2 teaspoons lemon juice
    1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 cup sour cream

Melt the butter in a large pot over medium heat. Saute the onions in the butter for 5 minutes. Add the mushrooms 
and saute for 5 more minutes. Stir in the dill, paprika, soy sauce and broth. Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 
for 15 minutes.
In a separate small bowl, whisk the milk and flour together. Pour this into the soup and stir well to blend. Cover 
and simmer for 15 more minutes, stirring occasionally.
Finally, stir in the salt, ground black pepper, lemon juice, parsley and sour cream. Mix together and allow to heat 
through over low heat, about 3 to 5 minutes. Do not boil. Serve immediately.

Notes: Excellent! I used fresh dill and it worked very well.


Spanish Rice

    3 tablespoons Vegetable oil
    1 Poblano diced
    1/2 teaspoon Black pepper
    1/2 cup Onion diced
    1 cup Rice
    1 1/2 tablespoons Tomato paste
    1 Tomato seeded and diced
    2 cups Chicken stock
    Salt to taste
    1/4 cup Cilantro chopped

Heat the oil in a saucepan and add the poblano, pepper, and onion. Sautee until tender. Add the rice and sautee 
until lightly browned. Add the tomato paste and tomato and stir well, then the chicken stock.

Reduce heat and cover, cooking until liquid is fully absorbed. Salt to taste, fluff with a fork, and toss in the 
fresh cilantro.


Shireen Palow (Afghan Orange Rice with Chicken)

2 chicken breast halves, skinned and cut in half (about 1 pound)
4 chicken thighs, skinned (about 1 pound)
3/4 teaspoon salt, divided
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons butter, divided
2 cups vertically sliced onion
1/4 teaspoon saffron threads, crushed
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoons grated orange rind
2 1/4 cups fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
1 1/2 cups uncooked basmati rice
2 tablespoons raisins
6 tablespoons chopped pistachios

Sprinkle chicken with 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper. Melt 1 tablespoon butter in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Add chicken, and cook 5 minutes, browning on all sides. Remove chicken from pan; cover and keep warm.

Melt 1 tablespoon butter in Dutch oven over medium heat. Add onion; cook 10 minutes or until golden brown, stirring 
occasionally. Add saffron and garlic, and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. Stir in sugar and rind; cook 1 minute, 
stirring constantly. Add 1/4 teaspoon salt, broth, rice, and raisins; bring to a boil. Add chicken, nestling into 
rice mixture. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 25 minutes or until rice is tender. Let stand 5 minutes. Sprinkle with 
pistachios.



Baked Scotch Eggs

Eggs (approx 5 for a pound of sausage)
Breakfast sausage
Salt
Sage
Pepper
Thyme
Flour
Panko bread crumbs (or any bread crumbs would do, really)

Hard boil eggs. To the sausage, add a dash of salt, sage, pepper, and thyme (about 1/2 tsp each) Split 
the meat into equal parts, and flatten them out, kind of like a thin patty. Peel the eggs, then dip the 
egg in water, and then in flour. Then wrap the sausage around the egg. THEN, beat an egg in a bowl, dip the 
sausage egg in the beaten egg, then roll the sausage egg in panko crumbs.

Bake on a cookie sheet at 400 for 30 minutes.


Kachumber Salad

    1 onion, thinly sliced
    1 cucumber, peeled and chopped
    1-2 jalapeno chillies (optional, as per taste)
    2 medium tomatoes, chopped
    1/2-1 tsp roasted cumin powder (as per taste)
    juice of 1 lemon along with zest, as per taste
    some cane sugar for sprinkling
    salt to taste
    few sprigs of cilantro for garnish

Add all the vegetables together. Squeeze the lemon juice.
Add the spices (cumin, salt and sugar)
Toss them well together.  Do a taste test to see if the seasoning is right for you. Better to start with 
little seasoning and build it along the way. Cover with plastic wrap and keep it in the refrigerator. 
This sitting time helps the flavors to blend.

Note: Great! An excellent summer salad.

Cook's Notes: Increase to 2 cucumbers. Use juice of a lime instead of lemon. Be fairly liberal with the salt. 
Be very conservative with the sugar (just a pinch is enough). Chop some cilantro and mix it into the salad.
Hot peppers are truly optional depending on whether the dish needs to help cool down other spicy foods or
provide a spicy balance to sweeter or richer foods. If used, de-seed then slice thinly or dice finely.




Chicken and Sausage Jambalaya

• 3 boneless chicken breasts (1.5-2lbs)
• 1 lb. of smoked andouille sausage
• 3 bell peppers (red, orange, and yellow)
• 2 medium yellow onions
• 2 jalapenos
• 3 cups chicken broth
• 3 cups water
• 3 cups medium-grain white rice
• 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
• 2 teaspoons salt
• 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
• 1 teaspoon Cajun seasoning (I prefer Tony Chachere’s)
• 3 bay leaves

    Put 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil into medium dutch oven, and heat on medium heat. o I use a 4qt dutch oven and everything fits perfectly.
    Dice up the bell peppers, onions, and jalapenos, 2 teaspoons of salt, and 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper and throw them in the pot. These should cook about 18-20 minutes. o I dice up all of my veggies in a food processor.
    Dice up the sausage into bite-sized pieces and throw them in the pot. These should cook about 15 minutes. o Make sure you scrape the bottom of the pot to loosen up any browned particles.
    Add 3 cups of chicken broth and 3 cups of water to a small saucepan and heat on medium-high heat.
    Cut the chicken into bite-sized pieces, cover with 1 teaspoon of Cajun seasoning, and throw into the pot. Also, add the 3 bay leaves to the pot. The chicken should take about 8-10 minutes to cook through.
    Add 3 cups of medium-grain white rice to the pot and stir to combine. Stir for a few minutes to let the rice soak up the juices in the pot.
    By this point, the broth/water pot should be boiling, add the liquid to the dutch oven and stir a few times.
    Put the lid on the dutch oven and turn the heat to low and let sit for about 40 minutes. It is very important that you not take the lid off during this time, or the rice will not cook correctly.
    Take the lid and off stir to mix the jambalaya, since most of the meat will have floated to the top.
    Remove the 3 bay leaves and serve!


	
Lamb Rogan Josh

Red and green bells Peppers
Onion, Garlic, Red Chili, Coriander Stalks, Ginger
Mushrooms
2 teaspoons Coriander, 2 Cumin, 1 Tumeric, 2 Garam Masala, 1 Chili Powder, 2 Salt
Lamb
Coriander Leaves, Spinach Leaves
Tomatoes (you could use a can instead)

Add onion, garlic, red chili, coriander stalks, ginger and spices to some oil and saute for a few minutes.
Add lamb, brown.
Add bell pepper and mushrooms, cook for a few minutes.
Add tomatoes and a few tablespoons of yogurt, cook for a while.
Add spinach and coriander leaves, wilt, serve.

Notes: Very good, a nice fragrant curry that isn't too curry-ey.


Boston Baked Beans

    2 cups navy beans
    1/2 pound bacon
    1 onion, finely diced
    3 tablespoons molasses
    2 teaspoons salt
    1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
    1/4 teaspoon dry mustard
    1/2 cup ketchup
    1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 cup brown sugar

Directions

    Soak beans overnight in cold water. Simmer the beans in the same water until tender, 
	  approximately 1 to 2 hours. Drain and reserve the liquid.
    Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C).
    Arrange the beans in a 2 quart bean pot or casserole dish by placing a portion of the beans in the bottom of dish, and layering them with bacon and onion.
    In a saucepan, combine molasses, salt, pepper, dry mustard, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce and brown sugar. 
	Bring the mixture to a boil and pour over beans. Pour in just enough of the reserved bean water to cover the beans. 
	Cover the dish with a lid or aluminum foil.
    Bake for 3 to 4 hours in the preheated oven, until beans are tender. 
	Remove the lid about halfway through cooking, and add more liquid if necessary to prevent the beans from getting too dry.

Notes: Good, does not need the entire 1/4 cup of brown sugar. I added some bourbon and prepared mustard for extra flavor.

	
	
South Carolina Mustard BBQ Sauce

    4 Tbsp. butter
    1/2 onion, grated
    1/2 cup yellow mustard (the kind you get at the ballpark)
    1/2 cup brown sugar
    1/2 cup cider vinegar
    1 Tbsp dry mustard (like Coleman’s)
    1 teaspoon cayenne
    1 bay leaf
    Salt to taste

1 Heat the butter over medium heat until it's frothy, then add the onion and sauté for 3-4 minutes. Do not let the onions brown.

2 Add everything else, stir well and simmer slowly for 30 minutes or more. 

Notes: Good, lots of zing! Consider reducing brown sugar to 1/3 cup at first; that may be sweet enough.


Blueberry Pie Bars

Crust and Topping:
1-1/2 c. all purpose flour
3/4 c. sugar
1/8 tsp. salt
3/4 c. unsalted butter, chilled

Filling:
2 large eggs
1 c. sugar
1/2 c. sour cream
3/8 c. all purpose flour
1/2 tsp. almond extract
16 oz. fresh blueberries

Directions:
1.  Heat oven to 350°F.  Grease an 8x8-inch pan with non stick cooking spray; set aside.
2.  For the crust, combine the flour, sugar, and salt in a food processor.  Cut the butter into 1/2-inch pieces and add to flour mixture.  Process until the butter is evenly distributed but the mixture is still crumbly (about 30 to 60 seconds).
3.  Reserve 1-1/2 cups of the mixture for the topping; set aside.  Press the remaining mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan.
4.  For the filling, whisk eggs in a large bowl, then add the sugar, sour cream, flour, and almond extract.  Gently fold in blueberries.  Spoon the filling over the crust and sprinkle the reserved topping mixture evenly over the filling.
6.  Bake 45 to 55 minutes or until top turns golden brown.  Cool 1 hour before cutting and serving or serve out of pan cobbler style.



Sauerbraten

This is the best sauerbraten recipe. The meat is more tender, and flavorful the longer you marinade, I usually marinade for 2 days

INGREDIENTS:

3 pounds bottom round roast
1 cup red wine vinegar
1 cup water
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 onion, thinly sliced
2 bay leaves
3 whole cloves
2 tablespoons salt
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper
4 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 cup water
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 tomato, cut into wedges

DIRECTIONS:

Place meat in large, non-metal bowl. In separate bowl, combine red wine vinegar, 1 cup water, lemon juice, onion, bay leaves, cloves, 
salt and pepper. Pour over meat. Cover and refrigerate 48 hours.

Heat oil in Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Remove meat from marinade and brown in oil on all sides, 1 to 2 minutes a side. 
Remove bay leaves and cloves from marinade. Pour in 1 cup water and pour marinade into pan with meat. 
Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 3 hours, or until tender.

Remove meat from pan. Increase heat and sprinkle flour, a little at a time, over juices, cooking until mixture thickens to form gravy. 
Return meat to pan with tomato wedges, heat through and serve.



Thai Basil Chicken 

3/4 lb chicken boneless skinless thighs (cut into 1/2? bite-sized cubes)
3-5 thai chili or bird’s eye chili (seeded and sliced thinly)
1 shallot, thinly sliced
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1/4 red bell pepper, cut into thin 1? pieces
1 1/2 TB fish sauce
1 tsp tamari (gluten-free soy sauce)
1 TB brown sugar (packed) or agave nectar
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/2-2/3 cup basil (lightly packed) OR ~12 large leaves Thai basil
canola oil for the pan

Make the sauce by stirring together fish sauce, tamari, brown sugar/agave, 1-2 tsp mirin (if using), and black pepper. Set it aside.

Heat a cast iron skillet (or other heavy-bottomed pan) over medium-high heat. Add about 1 TB of canola oil to the pan. Once the pan 
becomes hot, add shallots to the pan. Sauté for about a minute. Add garlic and chili to the pan. Continue stirring until shallots 
are lightly brown. Add chicken to the pan. Sauté for about 2 minutes until the chicken is almost cooked through. Add the red bell 
pepper pieces to the pan. Continue to stir until the chicken is cooked through.
    
Add the sauce to the pan. Mix well to ensure that the sauce is well distributed. Turn the heat off once the pan is dry. Add the basil 
and mix. The basil should wilt nicely from the residual heat from the pan. Serve with steamed brown rice. You can also serve topped 
with a fried egg made over easy.


Shepherd's Pie

1 medium onion, chopped
1 1/2 pounds ground or chopped beef
Corn
2 Carrots
3 Russet potatoes
1/4 cup ketchup
1/2 stick butter
1/2 cup milk
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon flour
Salt
Pepper
Thyme
2 cloves garlic, minced
6 - 8oz Brown Ale (Moose Drool if you can get it)

1) Cut potatoes into medium cubes and place in pot. Cover with water, add a bit of salt and bring to boil. 
   Turn down heat and simmer until fork tender.
2) Meanwhile, heat pan to medium high, add small amount of butter and sauté onion and carrots until soft, 
   about 3 to 4 minutes. Add garlic and stir for 30 seconds. Add ground beef and cook through. Add a good 
   pinch of salt and cracked pepper to taste while cooking. Add corn.
3) After the meat is fully browned, add Worcestershire sauce and ketchup. Stir and cook for 2 minutes. 
   Add flour, mix in and cook for 3 minutes. Then add beer to make a sauce. Continue cooking until sauce 
   thickens, and add a bit more beer if it is too thick. Cook for 3 more minutes as alcohol cooks out. 
   Taste and season with salt, pepper, and thyme as needed.
4) Pour meat into baking dish and press firmly with spoon to compact the meat in the dish.
5) About this time the potatoes should be done. Drain potatoes, add half stick of butter and mash. Add the 
   milk. Mash until smooth or lumpy, depending how you like them. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
6) Spoon mashed potatoes on top of meat mixture and smooth out. Create some peaks and valleys. Cover and 
   bake in 350-degree oven for 20 to 30 minutes.
7) Take cover off and broil until awesome.



Mexican Stuffed Shells

1 lb. ground beef
1 package low-sodium taco seasoning (or better yet use this Taco Seasoning!)
4 oz. cream cheese
14-16 jumbo pasta shells
1.5 cup salsa
1 cup taco sauce (This is a smooth, tomato based sauce found in the Mexican section)
1 cup cheddar cheese
1 cup monterey jack cheese
3 green onions
Sour cream

Preheat oven to 350°.

In a frying pan cook ground beef; add taco seasoning and prepare according to package directions.  
Add cream cheese, cover and simmer until cheese is melted. Blend well. Set aside and cool completely.  
While ground beef is cooking, cook the pasta shells according to directions; drain. Set shells out 
individually on cutting board/baking sheet so that they don’t stick together.

Pour salsa on bottom of 9×13 baking dish.  Stuff each shell with the meat mixture. Place shells in 
9×13 pan open side up. Cover shells with taco sauce.  Cover with foil and bake for 30 minutes.

After 30 minutes, add shredded cheese and bake for 10-15 more minutes, with the foil removed.  
Top with any condiments you’d like (green onions, black olives, etc.) Serve with sour cream and/or 
more salsa.


Taco Seasoning

    4 Tbsp Chili Powder
    3 Tbsp plus 1tsp paprika
    3 Tbsp ground cumin
    1 Tbsp plus 2 tsp onion powder
    1 tsp garlic powder
    1/4 tsp cayenne pepper

Combine all of the spices. Then, to make a 1 pound batch of seasoned meat you will use 2 heaping 
tablespoons of the seasoning and 1 cup of water. This equals what one package would give you.



Laab (Thai Minced Pork Salad)

1/3 cup canola oil
3 tbsp. mashed garlic
4 red Thai chiles, stemmed and minced
10 oz. ground pork
1 tsp. crushed red chile flakes
1 tsp. Chinese five-spice powder
1 tsp. freshly grated nutmeg
1 tsp. kosher salt
1/4 tsp. ground black pepper
1/4 tsp. ground coriander
1/4 tsp. ground cardamom
2 tbsp. minced mint, plus more to garnish
1 tbsp. minced scallions, plus more to garnish
1 tbsp. minced cilantro, plus more to garnish
2 tsp. fish sauce
Thinly sliced kaffir lime leaves, lemongrass, shallots, cucumbers, and cherry tomatoes to garnish

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Heat oil in a 12" skillet over medium heat. Add garlic and chiles, and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Add pork, chile flakes, five-spice, nutmeg, salt, pepper, coriander, and cardamom, and cook, stirring, until pork is browned, about 2 minutes. Stir in mint, scallions, cilantro, and fish sauce, and cook until pork is done, about 4 minutes.

2. Transfer to a large serving bowl, and top with scallions, cilantro, kaffir leaves, lemongrass, shallots, mint, cilantro, cucumbers, and tomatoes. Serve at room temperature.


Major Grey's Chutney

INGREDIENTS
2 1/4 lb. mangoes, peeled and finely chopped
1 cup sugar
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 cup apple cider vinegar
1 cup raisins
1/2 cup finely chopped ginger
3 tbsp. fresh lemon juice
2 tsp. chile powder
1 tsp. freshly grated nutmeg
1 tsp. kosher salt
1/2 tsp. ground cloves
1/2 tsp. ground black pepper
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 large yellow onion, finely chopped
1 stick cinnamon

INSTRUCTIONS
Combine all ingredients in a 4-qt. saucepan; boil. 
Reduce heat to medium-low; cook, stirring, until reduced and thick, about 2 hours. 
Transfer to glass jars and seal; store in refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.



Senate Bean Soup

1 lb. dried navy beans, soaked overnight, drained
1 smoked ham hock
1 tbsp. unsalted butter
1 small yellow onion, finely chopped
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Bring beans, ham hock, and 8 cups water to a boil in a 6-qt. Dutch oven over medium-high heat; reduce heat to medium-low
   and cook until beans are tender, about 1 hour.

2. Meanwhile, heat butter in a 10" skillet over medium heat. Add onion, and cook, stirring, until soft, about 5 minutes. 
   Transfer to pot with beans, reduce heat to low to keep warm. Remove ham hock, let cool slightly, and then remove meat, 
   discarding bone, skin, and excess fat; finely chop meat and add back to soup. Lightly mash some of the beans in the pot 
   to create a thick, creamy texture; season with salt and pepper. 




Espàrrecs Amb Vinagreta (Catalan Asparagus Vinagrette)

Kosher salt, to taste
2½ lb. asparagus spears, trimmed
7 tbsp. extra-virgin olive oil
3 tbsp. capers, drained
2 tbsp. fresh lemon juice
2 tbsp. finely chopped parsley
2 plum tomatoes, cored and finely chopped
½ red onion, minced
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
2 hard-boiled eggs, cut into wedges

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add asparagus; cook until tender, about 4 minutes. Drain; transfer to a serving platter.

2. Whisk oil, capers, juice, parsley, tomatoes, onion, salt, and pepper in a bowl; pour over asparagus. Garnish with egg wedges. 



Cream of Tomato Soup

4 slices thick-cut bacon, finely chopped
2 tbsp. unsalted butter
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1 medium yellow onion, finely chopped
1 medium carrot, finely chopped
3 tbsp. tomato paste
1 tbsp. flour
4 cups chicken stock
2 sprigs thyme
1 bay leaf
1 (15-oz.) can whole, peeled tomatoes in juice, crushed by hand
¼ cup heavy cream
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
Crème fraîche, croutons, and finely chopped chives, to garnish

INSTRUCTIONS
Heat bacon in a 4-qt. saucepan over medium heat, and cook until its fat renders and bacon is crisp, about 15 minutes. 
Add butter, and increase temperature to medium-high; add garlic, onion, and carrot, and cook, stirring, until soft, about 10 minutes. 
Add tomato paste, and cook, stirring, until lightly caramelized, about 3 minutes. 
Add flour, and cook, stirring until smooth, about 2 minutes more. 
Add stock, thyme, bay leaf, and tomatoes, and bring to a boil; reduce heat to medium-low, and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until slightly reduced, about 30 minutes. Remove from heat, and purée; return to saucepan, and stir in cream. 
Season with salt and pepper. 
Divide among bowls; dollop with crème fraîche, and sprinkle with croutons and chives.


Mostarda di Frutta (Spicy Mustard and Fruit Preserves) 

8 oz. dried apricots, quartered
4 oz. dried cherries, halved
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tbsp. Dijon mustard
2 tbsp. brown mustard seeds
2 tbsp. canola oil
1/4 tsp. cayenne
4 green apples, such as Granny Smith, peeled, cored, and cut into ½" cubes
3 bay leaves
Kosher salt, to taste

INSTRUCTIONS
Bring all ingredients and 3 cups water to a boil in a 4-qt. saucepan over medium-high heat; 
cook, stirring occasionally, until apricots and cherries are plumped, apples are tender, and liquid is reduced, 
about 40 minutes. Let cool.
Serve as a condiment to meats


Preserved Lemons
 
As lemons cure in a salty, spicy brine, their flesh softens and sweetens; after a month, 
they're ready to be finely chopped and added to everything from Moroccan tagines to vinaigrettes. 

6 medium lemons
¼ cup kosher salt
2 cups fresh lemon juice
1 tsp. whole black peppercorns
1 tsp. cumin seeds
½ tsp. coriander seeds
½ tsp. nigella seeds
¼ tsp. fenugreek seeds
8 whole allspice berries
1 stick cinnamon
1 bay leaf

INSTRUCTIONS
Quarter each lemon lengthwise so that it stays attached by about ½" at the stem end. Place lemons in a 
bowl and stuff with the salt. Transfer lemons to a sterilized 1-qt. glass jar and add the lemon juice, 
peppercorns, cumin, coriander, nigella, and fenugreek seeds, allspice, cinnamon, and bay leaf; seal  
with a tight-fitting lid and set aside in a dark place, shaking jar every other day or so, until lemons 
are soft, about 1 month. Refrigerate after opening, and use within 2 weeks.



Carrot-Ginger Dressing

1 cup vegetable oil  
1/2 cup rice vinegar
1/4 cup soy sauce
1 tbsp. sugar
1 1/2 tsp. finely grated ginger
2 medium carrots (about 8 oz.), peeled and roughly chopped
1/2 medium yellow onion (about 6 oz.), roughly chopped
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
1 head (about 1 lb.) iceberg lettuce, trimmed and cut into bite-sized pieces, for serving

INSTRUCTIONS
Combine oil, vinegar, soy sauce, sugar, ginger, carrots, and onion in a food processor, and process 
until smooth; season with salt and pepper. Combine dressing and lettuce in a bowl, and toss until 
evenly coated; serve immediately.




Bobotie (South African Meat Pie)

INGREDIENTS
2 oz. Asian tamarind paste
2 slices square white sandwich bread
½ cup milk
2 tbsp. canola oil
2 lb. ground lamb shoulder
2 tbsp. unsalted butter
2 medium yellow onions, finely chopped
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 tbsp. curry powder
1 tbsp. sugar
¼ cup sliced almonds
3 tbsp. golden raisins
2 tbsp. fresh lemon juice
1 tsp. lemon zest
2 eggs
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Break tamarind paste into small pieces and place in a small bowl; cover with ½ cup boiling water, and 
let sit until soft, about 30 minutes. Massage and stir paste and water together with your fingers until 
paste dissolves; pour through a fine strainer into a bowl, and set tamarind juice aside. Meanwhile, tear 
bread into small pieces and place in a small bowl; cover with ¼ cup milk and let sit until bread soaks up 
milk; set aside.

2. Meanwhile, heat oil in a 12? skillet over medium-high heat; add lamb, and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until well browned all over and all moisture evaporates, about 25 minutes. Transfer to a bowl, and set aside. 
Return skillet to heat along with butter, and add onions and garlic; cook, stirring, until soft, about 5 minutes. 
Add curry powder and sugar, and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 2 minutes; transfer to bowl with lamb 
along with reserved tamarind juice, soaked bread, 3 tbsp. almonds, raisins, lemon juice and zest, and 1 egg. 
Season with salt and pepper, and mix until evenly combined. Transfer to a 9? deep-dish pie plate, and spread 
evenly over the bottom.

3. Heat oven to 375°. Whisk together remaining milk and egg in a small bowl, season with salt and pepper, 
and pour over meat mixture in dish. Bake until custard is set on top, golden brown, and meat mixture is 
heated through, about 30 minutes. Remove from oven and sprinkle with remaining almonds; let cool for 10 
minutes before serving.


West African Peanut Stew

1/3 cup canola oil
2 lb. bone-in chicken thighs, skinned
Kosher salt, to taste
1/4 cup finely chopped ginger
1 large yellow onion, finely chopped
4 chile de arbol
1 tsp. ground coriander
1 tsp. turmeric
1/2 tsp. ground cumin
1/2 tsp. ground black pepper
1/4 tsp. ground cinnamon
1/3 tsp. fenugreek seeds
3 whole cloves
2 tbsp. tomato paste
3/4 cup peanut butter
1 cup diced plum tomatoes
1 lb. eggplant, peeled and cut into 1? cubes
4 oz. okra, cut into 1?-thick pieces
1 fresh red chile, sliced
Roasted, chopped peanuts, for garnish
Cooked white rice, for serving

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Heat 3 tbsp. oil in a 6-qt. Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Season chicken with salt and add to pot; cook, 
turning once, until lightly browned on both sides, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a plate, and set aside.

2. Add remaining oil to pot. Add ginger, onion, and chiles de arbol and cook, stirring, until soft, about 8 minutes; 
add spices, and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add tomato paste, and cook, stirring, until lightly 
caramelized, about 3 minutes. Stir in peanut butter, and then return chicken to pot along with 6 cups of water and 
tomatoes, and bring to a boil; reduce heat to medium-low, and cook, partially covered, until chicken is half-cooked, 
about 25 minutes. Add eggplant and okra, and cook, stirring occasionally, until chicken is cooked through and 
eggplant and okra are tender, about 30 minutes. Season the stew with salt. Sprinkle with the red chile and peanuts. 
Serve with rice.


Sauerbraten (German Pot Roast)

1 (5-lb.) beef eye of round
Kosher salt, to taste
2 cups red wine
1½ cups red wine vinegar
3 large onions, thinly sliced
1 large carrot, thinly sliced
1 bouquet garni (1 tbsp. pickling spices, 14 whole cloves, 8 whole black peppercorns, 3 bay leaves, 
                 3 sprigs thyme, 2 sprigs parsley, wrapped in cheesecloth, tied with kitchen twine)
4 tbsp. unsalted butter
4 slices bacon, finely chopped
3 tbsp. flour
2 tbsp. sugar
½ cup golden raisins
6 gingersnaps, crumbled
Juice of ½ lemon
2 tbsp. chopped parsley

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Season beef liberally with salt in large bowl. Bring wine, vinegar, 1 onion, carrot, bouquet garni, 
and 4 cups water to a boil in a 4-qt. saucepan; pour over beef. Cover and refrigerate, turning once or 
twice a day, for 5 days. 
Remove beef from marinade; pour marinade through a fine strainer into a bowl, and dry beef thoroughly. 
(Reserve 5 cups of the marinade and the bouquet garni.) Heat 2 tbsp. butter and bacon in an 8-qt. Dutch 
oven over medium-high heat; cook until bacon renders its fat, about 10 minutes. Transfer bacon to a 
plate; set aside. Add beef; cook, turning, until browned all over, about 25 minutes. Transfer to a plate; 
set aside.

2. Heat oven to 325°. Add remaining onions to pot; cook, stirring, until caramelized, about 18 minutes. 
Return beef to pot with reserved marinade and sachet; boil. Cover; bake until beef is very tender, about 
2½ hours. Transfer beef to a platter; pour sauce through a fine strainer into a bowl.

3. Return pot to medium-high heat; add remaining butter. Add flour and sugar; cook, whisking constantly, 
until lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Add sauce, raisins, gingersnaps, and juice; return beef to sauce. 
Bring to a simmer, cover pot, and cook until slightly reduced, about 10 minutes. Thinly slice beef; arrange 
on a platter. Spoon sauce over top; sprinkle with bacon and parsley. 



Caribbean Oxtail Stew

3 tbsp. canola oil
2 lb. oxtails, cut into 2? pieces
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
3 tbsp. tomato paste
1 tbsp. minced ginger
6 cloves garlic, minced
2 large yellow onions, chopped
1 small carrot, chopped
1 rib celery, chopped
2 tbsp. flour
4 cups beef stock
1 tbsp. whole allspice berries
4 sprigs thyme
2 habanero chiles
2 tbsp. light brown sugar
1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
4 scallions, roughly chopped
Cooked rice, for serving

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Heat oil in an 8-qt. Dutch oven over medium-high heat; season oxtails with salt and pepper. Add to pot; 
cook, turning once, until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a plate; set aside. Add tomato paste, 
ginger, garlic, onions, carrot, and celery; cook until soft, about 4 minutes. Add flour; cook until smooth, 
about 2 minutes. Return oxtails to pot with stock, allspice, thyme, and chiles; boil. Reduce heat to medium-low; 
cook, covered, until oxtails are tender, about 1½ hours.

2. Add sugar and Worcestershire to pot and cook until liquid is reduced, about 5 minutes. Garnish with 
scallions and serve with rice. 



Carbonnade (Flemish Beef and Beer Stew) 

2 lb. beef chuck, cut into 2? x ½?-thick slices
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
¼ cup flour
4 tbsp. unsalted butter
4 slices bacon, finely chopped
6 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 medium yellow onions, thinly sliced lengthwise
2 cups Belgian-style ale, like Ommengang Abbey Ale
1 cup beef stock
2 tbsp. dark brown sugar
2 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
3 sprigs thyme
3 sprigs parsley
2 sprigs tarragon
1 bay leaf
Bread, for serving

INSTRUCTIONS
Season beef with salt and pepper in a bowl; add flour and toss to coat. Heat 2 tbsp. butter in a 6-qt. Dutch oven 
over medium-high heat. Working in batches, add beef; cook, turning, until browned, about 8 minutes. Transfer to a 
plate; set aside. Add bacon; cook until its fat renders, about 8 minutes. Add remaining butter, garlic, and onions; 
cook until caramelized, about 30 minutes. Add half the beer; cook, scraping bottom of pot, until slightly reduced, 
about 4 minutes. Return beef to pot with remaining beer, stock, sugar, vinegar, thyme, parsley, tarragon, bay leaf, 
and salt and pepper; boil. Reduce heat to medium-low; cook, covered, until beef is tender, about 1 ½ hours. Serve 
with bread. 



Bigos (Polish Pork and Sauerkraut Stew) 

¼ oz. dried porcini mushrooms
4 oz. bacon, cut into ½? pieces
1 lb. boneless pork shoulder, cut into 1? cubes
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
8 oz. smoked kielbasa, cut into 1? rounds
1 tsp. caraway seeds
8 whole allspice berries
2 large yellow onions, chopped
2 bay leaves
½ cup tomato paste
3 tbsp. flour
4 lb. sauerkraut, drained
2 oz. pitted prunes, chopped
6 cups beef stock
½ cup madeira wine
2 medium tart apples, peeled, cored, and cut into ½? cubes
Minced chives, to garnish

1. Place mushrooms in a bowl; cover with 1½ cups boiling water. Let sit until mushrooms rehydrate, about 1 hour. 
Using a slotted spoon, transfer mushrooms to a cutting board; roughly chop and set aside. Slowly pour soaking liquid 
into another bowl, leaving any sediment in the bottom of the first bowl; set aside.

2. Heat bacon in an 8-qt. Dutch oven over medium heat; cook until its fat renders, about 12 minutes. Transfer to a 
plate; set aside. Increase heat to medium-high; working in batches, season pork with salt and pepper. Add to pot; 
cook, turning, until browned all over, about 8 minutes. Transfer to plate with bacon. Add kielbasa; cook until browned, 
about 6 minutes; transfer to plate.

3. Add caraway, allspice, onions, and bay leaves; cook, scraping bottom of pot, until onions are soft, about 10 minutes. 
Add tomato paste; cook until caramelized, about 8 minutes. Add flour; cook, stirring, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add 
sauerkraut, and cook, stirring, until slightly wilted, about 3 minutes. Return meat to pot along with reserved mushrooms 
and their soaking liquid, and then add prunes, stock, and wine; bring to a boil. Season with salt and pepper, and reduce 
heat to medium-low; cook, covered and stirring occasionally, for 30 minutes. Add apples, and cook, covered, until pork 
is tender, about 30 minutes more; garnish with chives. 



Green Curry Chicken

1 tsp. coriander seeds
½ tsp. cumin seeds
10 whole white peppercorns
2 whole green cardamom pods, crushed and seeds removed
2 tbsp. roughly chopped cilantro
2 tsp. ground turmeric
½ tsp. Thai shrimp paste
¼ tsp. freshly grated nutmeg
20 green Thai chiles, stemmed
3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 kaffir lime leaves, stemmed and thinly sliced
1 serrano, stemmed and seeded
1 small shallot, thinly sliced
1 2"-piece lemongrass, peeled and thinly sliced
1 1 ½"-piece ginger, peeled and thinly sliced crosswise
Juice and zest of 1 lime
Kosher salt, to taste
2 cups canned coconut milk
2 lb. boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1" pieces
1 cup chicken stock
2 tbsp. fish sauce
1 tbsp. sugar
Small basil leaves and thinly sliced red Thai chiles, for serving
Cooked white rice, for serving

INSTRUCTIONS
1. Heat coriander, cumin, peppercorns, and cardamom seeds in a 10" skillet over medium-high heat, and cook until 
seeds begin to pop and are toasted and fragrant, about 1 minute.  Transfer to a food processor along with cilantro, 
turmeric, shrimp paste, nutmeg, chiles, garlic, lime leaves, serrano, shallot, lemongrass, ginger, lime zest, juice, 
and 2 tbsp. water; purée until smooth. Season with salt, and set curry paste aside.

2. Combine curry paste and coconut milk in a 4-qt. saucepan, and heat over medium-high heat; cook, stirring, until 
oil begins to separate from the milk, about 12 minutes. Add chicken, and cook, stirring, until cooked through, 
about 15 minutes. Add stock, fish sauce, and sugar, and bring to a boil. Remove from heat, and ladle chicken and 
sauce into serving bowls. Garnish with basil and sliced chiles, and serve with rice.



Red Beans and Rice

¼ cup canola oil
8 cloves garlic, finely chopped
6 ribs celery, finely chopped
2 large yellow onions, finely chopped
2 green bell peppers, stemmed, seeded, and finely chopped
Kosher salt, to taste
1 tbsp. ground white pepper
1 tbsp. dried thyme
2 tsp. dried oregano
1 ½ tsp. cayenne
1 tsp. freshly ground black pepper
1 lb. dried kidney beans, soaked overnight
4 bay leaves
2 smoked ham hocks
1 tbsp. hot sauce, such as Tabasco
Cooked white rice, for serving
Thinly sliced scallions, to garnish

INSTRUCTIONS
Heat oil in an 8-qt. Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add garlic, celery, onions, and peppers, season with salt, 
and cook, stirring, until soft, about 12 minutes. Add white pepper, thyme, oregano, cayenne, and black pepper, and 
stir until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Add beans,  bay leaves, ham hocks, and 6 cups water, and bring to a boil. 
Reduce heat to medium-low, and cook, covered, until beans and ham hock are tender, about 2 hours. Remove hocks from 
pot, remove and discard bones and skin, and finely chop meat; return to pot along with hot sauce, and stir until 
combined. Serve over rice in bowls and sprinkle with scallions.



Sweet Potato Casserole

4 cups sweet potato, cubed
1/2 cup white sugar
2 eggs, beaten
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons butter, softened
1/2 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup packed brown sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons butter, softened
1/2 cup chopped pecans

1. 	Preheat oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). Put sweet potatoes in a medium saucepan with water to cover. 
    Cook over medium high heat until tender; drain and mash.
2. 	In a large bowl, mix together the sweet potatoes, white sugar, eggs, salt, butter, milk and vanilla extract. 
    Mix until smooth. Transfer to a 9x13 inch baking dish.
3. 	In medium bowl, mix the brown sugar and flour. Cut in the butter until the mixture is coarse. Stir in the pecans. 
    Sprinkle the mixture over the sweet potato mixture.
4. 	Bake in the preheated oven 30 minutes, or until the topping is lightly brown.

Notes: Ye gods this is sweet. Probably should reduce white sugar to 1/3 cup. Also, do not feel compelled to sprinkle
entire brown sugar/flour/butter/nut topping on the casserole because it's just too much. I substituted black walnuts
for pecans and it was ok but the bitterness/bite of the walnuts did not match very well with the overwhelming sweetness
of the casserole. I wanted to make this dish at least once and I feel like that's probably enough. :-) Somebody else can
roll the dice against diabetes - I'll make an Indian or Moroccan dish out of my surplus sweet potatoes next time!



Brazilian Black Bean Stew

1 tablespoon canola oil
1/4 pound chorizo sausage, chopped
1/3 pound cooked ham, chopped
1 medium onion, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 (1 pound) sweet potatoes, peeled and diced
1 large red bell pepper, diced
2 (14.5 ounce) cans diced tomatoes with	juice
1 small hot green chile pepper, diced
1 1/2 cups water
2 (16 ounce) cans black beans, rinsed and drained
1 mango - peeled, seeded and diced
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
1/4 teaspoon salt

1. 	Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat, and cook the chorizo and ham 2 to 3 minutes. Place the onion in the pot, 
    and cook until tender. Stir in garlic, and cook until tender, then mix in the sweet potatoes, bell pepper, tomatoes 
	with juice, chile pepper, and water. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 15 minutes, until sweet 
	potatoes are tender.
2. 	Stir the beans into the pot, and cook uncovered until heated through. Mix in the mango and cilantro, and season with salt.



Sweet Potato, Carrot, Apple, and Red Lentil Soup

1/4 cup butter
2 large sweet potatoes, peeled and
chopped
3 large carrots, peeled and chopped
1 apple, peeled, cored and chopped
1 onion, chopped
1/2 cup red lentils
1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon paprika
4 cups vegetable broth
plain yogurt

1. 	Melt the butter in a large, heavy bottomed pot over medium-high heat. Place the chopped sweet potatoes, 
    carrots, apple, and onion in the pot. Stir and cook the apples and vegetables until the onions are 
	translucent, about 10 minutes.
2. 	Stir the lentils, ginger, ground black pepper, salt, cumin, chili powder, paprika, and vegetable broth 
    into the pot with the apple and vegetable mixture. Bring the soup to a boil over high heat, then reduce 
	the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer until the lentils and vegetables are soft, about 30 minutes.
3. 	Working in batches, pour the soup into a blender, filling the pitcher no more than halfway full. Hold 
    down the lid of the blender with a folded kitchen towel, and carefully start the blender, using a few 
	quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree. Puree in batches until smooth and 
	pour into a clean pot. Alternately, you can use a stick blender and puree the soup right in the cooking 
	pot.
4. 	Return the pureed soup to the cooking pot. Bring back to a simmer over medium-high heat, about 10 minutes. 
    Add water as needed to thin the soup to your preferred consistency. Serve with yogurt for garnish.
	
	
Spicy Chicken and Sweet Potato Stew

1 teaspoon olive oil
1 onion, chopped
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 pound sweet potato, peeled and cubed
1 orange bell pepper, seeded and cubed
1 pound cooked chicken breast, cubed
1 (28 ounce) can diced tomatoes
2 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons chili powder
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons water
1 cup frozen corn
1 (16 ounce) can kidney beans, rinsed and drained
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro

1. 	Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium heat. Stir in onion and garlic; cook and stir until the 
    onion has softened and turned translucent, about 5 minutes. Stir in sweet potato, bell pepper, 
	chicken, tomatoes, and 2 cups of water. Season with salt, chili powder, cumin, oregano, cocoa powder, 
	cinnamon, and red pepper flakes. Increase heat to medium-high and bring to a boil. Dissolve flour 
	in 2 tablespoons water, and stir in to boiling stew. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer 
	until the potatoes are tender but not mushy, 10 to 20 minutes. Stir the stew occasionally to keep 
	it from sticking.
2. 	Once the potatoes are done, stir in corn and kidney beans. Cook a few minutes until hot, then stir 
    in cilantro before serving.
	
	
	
Arabian Squash Casserole	
	
4 cups cooked squash or pumpkin, mashed or pureed (I used butternut squash)
1 tbs. olive oil
1.5 cups chopped onion
1 tsp. salt
2 small bell peppers
4 or 5 medium cloves garlic, minced
black pepper and cayenne, to taste
.5 cup firm yogurt
1 cup crumbled feta cheese

Preheat oven to 375 F

Placed the mashed or pureed squash in a large bowl
Heat the olive oil in a medium sized skillet. Add onion, and saute over medium heat for about 5 minutes. 
Add salt and bell peppers. Saute about 5 more minutes, or until the peppers begin to get soft.
Add garlic, black pepper, and cayenne, and saute a few more minutes.
Add the saute, along with yogurt and feta, to the squash, and mix well. Spread into an ungreased 9-inch square baking pan
Bake uncovered for 25 to 30 minutes, or until bubbly.	


Harissa

2 Tbsp. whole coriander seeds
2 Tbsp. whole cumin seeds
2 Tbsp. dried crushed red chile pepper (more if you can take it, less if wuss )
2 garlic cloves
1/2 squeezed lemon
3-4-5 Tbsp olive oil (until it's a nice paste, like grainy mustard)
Salt to taste

1) Grind the spices thoroughly in a mortar and pestle. (adding some salt when grinding makes it easier)
2) Add cloves, pound until a thick paste.
3) Add the Lemon juice, Olive oil until it's a nice goo, salt to taste.


Pumpkin and Sausage Soup

1 pound tube of HOT sausage
1 Medium Onion Chopped
1-2 Cloves of Garlic Chopped
8 ounces of Fresh Mushrooms sliced
1 rounded Tablespoon of Italian spices
1  15 ounce can of Pumpkin Puree (NOT pumpkin pie filling)
4 cups Chicken Broth 
1 cup Half & Half (or milk)

Brown sausage. Drain fat. Add onion, garlic, mushroom and Italian spices. 
Cook until onion is translucent. Add pumpkin/squash, mix well; add broth. 
Add salt and pepper. Simmer 20 minutes. Add milk, gently simmer a few minutes more and serve.

Notes: This is really good! I used a real pumpkin instead of canned. Didn't really change anything
else except I didn't bother measuring the pumpkin.


Creamy Kohlrabi Soup

    2 tablespoons butter
    1 medium onion, chopped
    1 pound kohlrabi bulbs, peeled and chopped
    2 1/2 cups vegetable stock
    2 1/2 cups milk
    1 bay leaf
    Salt and black pepper

 Melt butter in a large pan with a lid. Add onions and cook gently until soft, about 10 minutes. 
 Add kohlrabi and cook 2 minutes. Add vegetable stock, milk and bay leaf to pan, and bring to a boil. 
 Cover, reduce heat to low and simmer 25 minutes or until kohlrabi is tender. Let cool a few minutes 
   and remove bay leaf.
 Using an immersion blender or conventional blender or food processor, puree soup until smooth. You 
   may want to strain the soup through a fine sieve if the kohlrabi is especially fibrous. Season to 
   taste with salt and pepper. Serve in heated bowls with hearty bread of choice.

Notes: Quite different from our usual fare but good. In our opinion the bay leaf and salt/pepper just
was not enough to provide a flavourful experience so we added some sweet (not smokey) paprika and a touch
of white pepper. This was a good combination and made the soup a bit warmer and more enjoyable.   
   
   
Braised Kohlrabi
   
    2 tablespoons butter
    3 to 4 medium kohlrabi
    2 cloves garlic, minced
    1 cup chicken broth, or to cover
    1 tablespoon lemon juice
    Salt and pepper, to taste

Preparation:
Heat butter in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat. Slice kohlrabi into thin strips. Saute kohlrabi 
in the butter with garlic for about 2 to 3 minutes. Add chicken broth and lemon juice. Cover and simmer 
for 20 minutes, or until kohlrabi is tender. Add salt and pepper, to taste.


Vietnamese Daikon and Carrot Pickles

Ingredients

    2 pounds carrots (about 5 medium sized carrots), peeled
    2 pounds of daikon radishes (about 2 large daikon), peeled
    1 cup plus 4 teaspoons of sugar
    2 teaspoons salt
    2 1/2 cups white vinegar
    2 cups warm water (warm enough to easily dissolve sugar)

    About 5 pint jars
	
1 Julienne the carrots and the daikon radishes. Cut them first crosswise into 2 1/2 inch long segments. 
  Then cut 1/4-inch thick slices lengthwise. Stack the slices and cut them again into 1/4-inch thick batons.
2 Place the carrots and daikon radishes in a large bowl. Sprinkle with 4 teaspoons of sugar and 2 teaspoons 
  of salt. Use your clean hands to toss the carrots and daikon with the salt and sugar until well coated. 
  Continue to mix the carrots and daikon with your hands until they begin to soften, about 3 minutes. 
  They are ready once you can bend a piece of daikon all the way over without it breaking.
3 Transfer the carrots and daikon to a colander, rinse with cool water and drain well.
4 In a bowl (a 8 cup pyrex measuring cup works great for this) mix together one cup of sugar, the white 
  vinegar and the warm water, until the sugar dissolves.
5 Prepare clean jars. Pack the daikon and carrots tightly into the jars. Pour over the pickling liquid 
  to cover. Seal. Refrigerate.

The pickles should sit at least overnight before eating; their flavor will improve with time. They should 
last 4 to 6 weeks in the refrigerator.
Traditionally served in Vietnamese street sandwiches called Banh Mi. These pickles would be great with anything 
that would typically be served with coleslaw or sauerkraut, like hot dogs, or barbecued pork, or even with salad 
or wrapped into a spring roll. Or just eat them straight.

 
Southern Turnip Supreme

    1 cup vegetable broth
    3 cups peeled, cubed turnips
    1/4 cup minced onion
    2 cloves garlic, minced
    salt and black pepper to taste
    1 1/2 tablespoons sour cream
    1/2 cup shredded sharp white Cheddar cheese
    chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)

Place the vegetable bouillon cube into a saucepan with the water, and bring to a boil over high heat. 
Cook until the bouillon cube dissolves, about 1 minute. Stir in the turnips, onion, and garlic, return 
to a boil, and cook the mixture until the turnips are tender, about 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to a 
simmer, and cook until most of the liquid has been evaporated, 10 to 15 more minutes.
Lightly stir in the sour cream to coat the turnips. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and top with shredded 
Cheddar cheese and parsley.


Kashmiri-Style Kidney Beans with Turnips

    2 turnips, peeled and cubed
    1 cup water
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    1 (14.5 ounce) can kidney beans, drained
    3 tablespoons vegetable oil
    1/2 teaspoon whole cumin seeds
    1/2 teaspoon whole fennel seeds
    1 cup finely chopped red onion
    1/2 teaspoon minced fresh ginger root
    1/2 teaspoon minced garlic
    1 cup chopped tomatoes
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    1 teaspoon paprika
    1/2 teaspoon turmeric powder
    1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
    2 tablespoons water
    1/2 teaspoon Kashmiri garam masala

Place turnips into a saucepan with the water and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce heat 
to medium-low, cover, and simmer until the turnip is soft, about 5 minutes. Once tender, stir in the kidney beans, 
and cook 5 minutes more.
Meanwhile, heat the vegetable oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Stir in the cumin and fennel, and cook until 
the spices toast and become fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in the onion, and cook until it turns golden brown, about 
5 minutes. Stir in the minced ginger and garlic, cook and stir for 30 seconds, then add the tomatoes and salt, and 
continue cooking until the mixture turns pasty. Finally, stir in the paprika, turmeric, ground ginger, and 2 
tablespoons water; cook 2 minutes more.
Add the tomato mixture to the turnips, and simmer 10 minutes. Season with garam masala before serving.

Notes: Very good! Nice balance of spices - the fennel and cumin seed add great flavor.


Kale and Feta Salad

1 bunch kale, large stems discarded,
leaves finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar
1 apple, diced
1/3 cup feta cheese
1/4 cup currants
1/4 cup toasted pine nuts

Massage kale with salt in a large mixing bowl for 2 minutes. 
Pour vinegar over the kale and toss to coat. 
Fold apple, feta cheese, currants, and pine nuts into the kale.

Notes: Simple and good. I used sliced almonds instead of pine nuts to good effect. At the end I decided we wanted
a little more feta, a splash more of vinegar and a quick drizzle of olive oil.



Napa Cabbage Slaw

    1 lime, juiced
    3 tablespoons rice vinegar
    2 tablespoons Asian chili oil
    1 tablespoon mayonnaise
    1 tablespoon soy sauce
    3 cups finely shredded napa cabbage
    1 red bell pepper, thinly sliced
    1 orange bell pepper, thinly sliced
    1/2 cup thinly sliced snow peas
    3 scallions, thinly sliced
    Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Whisk together the lime juice, vinegar, chili oil, mayonnaise and soy sauce in a large bowl. 
Add the cabbage, peppers, snow peas and scallions and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper, to taste. 
Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow flavors to meld.

Notes: A nice Asian-style coleslaw. Watch out with the chili oil - we cut it to 1 T and it was still pretty
firey. Also, with 3 cups of shredded cabbage you don't really need two sliced bell peppers. Once seemed to
be enough.


COLLEGE CORN DIP

2 (15-ounce) cans Southwest Mexicorn with sweet peppers, drained
1 (4-ounce) can diced roasted green chilies, drained
1 (4-ounce) can diced jalapenos, drained
2 green onions (scallions), finely chopped
3/4 c. light mayonnaise
2/3 c. light sour cream
2 c. sharp cheddar cheese, shredded

Combine all ingredients in a large bowl.  Chill, covered, for several hours or overnight to allow flavors to intensify.
Serve with corn chips in scoop shapes.
Keeps well in the refrigerator (covered) for 4-5 days.  Stir before serving. 

Notes: A good corn/cream cheese dip to have with chips or maybe on tacos.


Chicken Cacciatore Bake
 
    1 14-16oz box of Penne pasta
    1/2 cup diced onion
    3 cup cooked, diced chicken
    1 can diced tomatoes {undrained}
    1 can tomato sauce {14-16 oz}
    1 can chicken broth
    1 can sliced mushrooms {I'm not a huge fan of canned mushrooms, but I don't always have fresh on hand!}
    1 diced bell pepper {I use a yellow one}
    1/2 tsp dried oregano
    1/4 tsp dried basil
    salt & pepper to taste- I always shake a little on it
    1/2 tsp minced garlic {1 clove}
    1/2 cup Parmesan cheese

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Spray a 9x13 pan with cooking spray.

Add all ingredients except for the Parmesan cheese to the pan. Stir to combine.
Cover the entire pan tightly with foil that's been sprayed with cooking spray on the underside. 
The noodles have to cook, so you need the heat to stay trapped in the pan.

After 30 minutes, remove from the oven and stir. Cover pasta with cheese and replace foil. Cook for another 30 minutes.


TIMPANO - EGGPLANT WRAPPED PASTA
http://www.instructables.com/id/TIMPANOEGGPLANT-WRAPPED-PASTA/?ALLSTEPS
It looks yummy. You mix zitti or rigatoni with veggies and cheese and tomato sauce, then
put it on top of roasted eggplant slices that have been draped inside a springform pan. More
eggplant goes on top to complete the 'pie' and you bake it. Looks like a bit of work but very 
interesting!



Warm Scallop Salad with Prosciutto Chips

    4 paper-thin slices prosciutto
    6 tablespoons olive oil, divided
    1 5-ounce package mixed babygreens
    1/2 cup (packed) fresh basil leaves, thinly sliced
    12 sea scallops
    All purpose flour
    2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
    1 teaspoon grated lemon peel

Brush each prosciutto slice on 1 side lightly with some of oil. Heat heavy large nonstick skillet 
over medium-high heat. Add 2 slices prosciutto, oiled side down. Cook until bottom is lightly browned, 
about 3 minutes. Turn prosciutto over and cook until bottom is browned, flattening with spatula, about 
1 minute longer. Using tongs, transfer prosciutto to paper towels to crisp. Repeat with remaining 2 
slices prosciutto. Reserve skillet.

Place greens and basil in large bowl. Sprinkle scallops with salt and pepper; dust lightly with flour. 
Heat remaining oil in reserved skillet over medium-high heat. Add scallops and cook until brown and just 
opaque in center, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer to plate. Add lemon juice and lemon peel to drippings 
in skillet. Bring to boil, scraping up any browned bits. Pour pan juices over greens and toss to coat. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide salad among 4 plates and top with scallops. Garnish with 
prosciutto chips and serve. 

Notes: Really good and different! We had some bacon chips instead of prosciutto - I think IMO I'd prefer 
bacon bits sprinkled over the salad rather than having a chip next to it. The lemon is an important aspect
of the dish; it adds an essential acid element to the dish and also provides an important citrus background.


Puebla-Style Chicken Mole

1 teaspoon olive oil
1 cup thinly sliced onion
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 stemmed dried seeded ancho chiles, torn into 2-inch pieces (about 1/4 cup)
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
3 cups fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
1 1/3 cups coarsely chopped tomato (about 1 medium)
1/4 cup golden raisins
3 tablespoons sliced almonds, toasted
3 (1/2 x 2-inch) orange rind strips
3/4 pound skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
3/4 pound skinless, boneless chicken thighs
1/2 ounce unsweetened chocolate
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper

Heat oil in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add onion; cook 5 minutes or until almost tender. 
Combine cumin, coriander, and cinnamon in a small bowl; sprinkle over onion in pan. Cook 1 minute. 
Add chiles and garlic to pan; cook 2 minutes or until chiles soften. Add broth and next 4 ingredients 
(through rind) to pan; bring to a boil. Add chicken to pan; cover, reduce heat, and simmer 10 minutes 
or until chicken is done. Remove chicken from pan; shred with 2 forks. Set aside.

Add chocolate to chile mixture; let stand until chocolate melts. Using an immersion blender in pan, 
puree the chocolate mixture until smooth. Cook over medium heat 20 minutes or until reduced to 3 1/2 cups. 
Add shredded chicken to sauce; stir in salt and pepper.


Molasses Cookies

3/4 cup margarine, melted
1 cup white sugar
1 egg
1/4 cup molasses
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 cup white sugar (for coating)

1. 	In a medium bowl, mix together the melted margarine, 1 cup sugar, and egg until smooth. Stir in the molasses. 
    Combine the flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cloves, and ginger; blend into the molasses mixture. 
    Cover, and chill dough for 1 hour.
2. 	Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Roll dough into walnut sized balls, and roll them in the remaining 
    white sugar. Place cookies 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets.
3. 	Bake for 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, until tops are cracked. Cool on wire racks.

Notes: These are awesome.


Thumbprint Cookies

    1 1/2 cups butter, softened
    1 cup sugar
    3 egg yolks
    3 cups sifted flour, or more
    1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
    strawberry or raspberry jam

Cream butter and sugar together. Add egg yolks, flour and vanilla; mix well. If dough is too soft to handle, work 
in little more flour. Roll dough into little balls. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Make a thumb print in the 
center of each. Fill thumbprint with your favorite jam. Bake a small first batch, and if the cookies in the first 
batch spreads too much, work a little more flour into the dough. Bake at 400° for 8 to 10 minutes, until light 
brown around edges.
Makes 8-10 dozen cookies.


Chocolate and Candy Cane Cookies

1 cup butter, melted
1/4 cup white sugar
1 1/4 cup brown sugar
2 eggs
2 tsp vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup cocoa powder
3/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp kosher salt
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
chocolate chips
6-8 peppermint candy canes
	
Preheat your oven to 375 degrees F. In a large mixer bowl, beat butter, sugar, eggs, and vanilla together until light and fluffy. 
In a separate bowl, combine the flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt together, then add to the wet mixture, mixing until well 
blended. Stir in the chocolate chips. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto un-greased cookie sheets. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes.

Next, smash your candy canes to smithereens. You can try to get a variety of sizes or you can just ground them into powder. 
Place in bowl.

Last, melt about 3/4 of a bag of chocolate chips. You can do this a few different ways. I put a glass bowl over a saucepan of 
boiling water.  Dip the cookies halfway into the chocolate, then dip them into the candy cane bowl. Set aside on foil or wax 
paper to harden.



Peppermint Meringues

2 egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
	
1/2 cup white sugar
2 peppermint candy canes, crushed
Directions:
1. 	Preheat oven to 225 degrees F (110 degrees C). Line 2 cookie sheets with foil.
2. 	In a large glass or metal mixing bowl, beat egg whites, salt, and cream of tartar to soft peaks. Gradually add sugar, 
    continuing to beat until whites form stiff peaks. Drop by spoonfuls 1 inch apart on the prepared cookie sheets. Sprinkle 
	crushed peppermint candy over the cookies.
3. 	Bake for 1 1/2 hours in preheated oven. Meringues should be completely dry on the inside. Do not allow them to brown. 
    Turn off oven. Keep oven door ajar, and let meringues sit in the oven until completely cool. Loosen from foil with metal 
	spatula. Store loosely covered in cool dry place for up to 2 months.

	
Chai Spiced Frosting

1/4 cup butter, softened (or dairy-free margarine)
1/4 cup milk (or almond milk)
1   teaspoon vanilla
1   teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon cardamon
1/4 teaspoon ginger
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
4+ cups powdered sugar

Combine all of the ingredients in a bowl until just mixed.
Use a mixer and blend until smooth and creamy.
Test the consistency and add either milk or sugar and blend again to achieve the desired consistency for spreading.

This produces enough frosting to cover 2 dozen cupcakes or one 13 x 9 sheet cake. 


Polish honey and spice gingerbread (piernik)

1 cup honey
1 cup black coffee
8 oz butter
1 cup brown sugar
3 eggs
3 tsp baking powder
4 cups plain (all purpose) flour
1 lemon zested
1 tsp all spice (pimento)
1 tsp ground ginger
1 tsp ground cinnamon

preheat oven to 190C and grease/line a baking pan.  I used a 9x12 pan, but you can also make this in a loaf tin.

add honey, coffee, sugar, butter and spices to a saucepan and mix over a gentle heat until the sugar has dissolved 
and the butter melted.  Leave to cool for a while you prepare the other ingredients

break eggs into a bowl and add the lemon zest. Whisk for a few minutes until bubbly

slowly pour in the melted butter, sugar and honey mixture onto the whisked eggs and keep beating for a few minutes 
until fully incorporated. 
Be careful not to add the melted mixture too quickly as this may curdle the eggs

add sifted flour and baking powder to the wet mixture and stir well to incorporate
pour into greased baking tin

bake for 30-40 minutes - it is ready when a skewer/tooth pick comes out clean. 
leave to cool completely before cutting into squares
eat and share with your nearest and dearest :)

Notes: This is good but has too little spice to be a truly yummy ginger cake - we found it a little bland.


Aioli

3 dollops mayonnaise
1 T lemon juice
1 T minced garlic
pepper, cayenne (if desired)


Malt Vinegar Aioli

1 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup malt vinegar (scant)
2 cloves garlic, mashed into paste
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon fresh tarragon, finely chopped
Salt& Pepper to taste

Notes: A wonderful condiment to have with fries or steamed shrimp.


Chicken with Brussels Sprouts and Mustard Sauce

2 tablespoons olive oil, divided
4 (6-ounce) skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
3/8 teaspoon salt, divided
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3/4 cup fat-free, lower-sodium chicken broth, divided
1/4 cup unfiltered apple cider
2 tablespoons whole-grain Dijon mustard
2 tablespoons butter, divided
1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
12 ounces Brussels sprouts, trimmed and halved

Preheat oven to 450°.

Heat a large ovenproof skillet over high heat. Add 1 tablespoon oil. Sprinkle chicken with 1/4 teaspoon salt 
and pepper; add to pan. Cook 3 minutes or until browned. Turn chicken; place pan in oven. Bake at 450° for 9 
minutes or until done. Remove chicken from pan; keep warm. 
Heat pan over medium-high heat. Add 1/2 cup broth and cider; bring to a boil, scraping pan to loosen browned bits. 
Reduce heat to medium-low; simmer 4 minutes or until thickened. Whisk in mustard, 1 tablespoon butter, and parsley.

Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon butter in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. 
Add Brussels sprouts; sauté 2 minutes or until lightly browned. Add remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt and 1/4 cup broth 
to pan; cover and cook 4 minutes or until crisp-tender. Serve sprouts with chicken and sauce.

Notes: A great and very different dish. You probably want to double the sauce.
       Another item worth mentioning - you can cut the chicken into bite-sized pieces and saute until cooked,
	    eliminating the baking step. The Brussels sprouts are superior roasted in the oven, as well.



Slow Cooker Creamy Chicken and Mint Curry

    4 teaspoons extra virgin olive oil
    1 red onion, very finely diced
    1 tablespoon fresh ginger paste
    4 pods garlic, pressed
    1/2 teaspoon cumin powder
    1/2 teaspoon coriander powder
    1 teaspoon salt
    1 teaspoon sugar
    1 large tomato, diced
    2 pounds boneless chicken, cut into small pieces
    1/3 cup low fat sour cream
    1/2 cup cashew nuts
    3/4 cups loosely packed mint leaves
    1 large lime, halved
    2 tablespoons chopped cilantro
    3 green chiles, coarsely chopped

In a large non-stick skillet or pan heat the oil on medium heat for about 1 minute. 
Add in the onions and sauté well for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally until the onions soften, wilt and begin the turn golden at the edges.
Add in the ginger paste and the garlic and cook for another 2 minutes.
Add in the cumin and coriander powders and mix well.
Place the entire mixture in a slow cooker, add in the salt, sugar and the tomato and turn the setting on a high.
Let this cook undisturbed for 1 hour on high and add in the chicken and cook for another 45 minutes, until the mixture is bubbly and cooking briskly.
Place the sour cream and cashews in a blender and grind until smooth. Then, stir into the chicken and let it simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.
Place the mint in a blender, squeeze in the lime juice and add the cilantro and green chilies and grind to a paste.
At this point, the chicken should be soft and the gravy should be a light creamy texture.
Turn off the slow cooker and stir in the herb sauce and mix well. Let rest for 20 minutes before serving.



Ceviche

1 pound bay scallops
8 limes, juiced
2 tomatoes, diced
5 green onions, minced
2 stalks celery, sliced
	
1/2 green bell pepper, minced
1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley
freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil
1/8 cup chopped fresh cilantro

Rinse scallops and place in a medium sized bowl. 
Pour lime juice over the scallops. The scallops should be completely immersed in the lime juice. 
Chill the lime juice and scallops all day or overnight until scallops are opaque (you cannot see through them).
Empty 1/2 of the lime juice from the bowl. 
Add tomatoes, green onions, celery, green bell pepper, parsley, black pepper, olive oil, and cilantro to the scallop mixture. 
Stir gently. Serve.



Caponata

1 medium-large eggplant, cut into (approx) 1-inch pieces
1/4 cup olive oil
1 stalk of celery, chopped
1 red bell pepper, cut into 1/2-inch pieces (I use a mix or red/orange/yellow when available)
1 medium onion, chopped
1(14oz) can diced tomatoes
3 tablespoons raisins
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
2 tablespoon drained capers (you can use olives in place of or in addition to capers)
1 fat garlic clove, peeled and minced
2 teaspoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
Salt and pepper
1 loaf ciabatta bread, or other delicious rustic bread
Generous slices of fresh (water-packed) mozzarella (I use either one or two packages, depending upon how gluttonous I and my friends feel)

First cut up the eggplant and spread it out in a single layer over a clean flour cloth or a few layers of paper towel. 
Sprinkle it with salt all over (using about one rounded teaspoon to cover each eggplant), toss it around to coat all 
sides lightly and let it "sweat" for at least fifteen minutes. Don't worry; most of this salt will not go into the final dish.

Meanwhile, dice the onion and chop the celery and peppers to approx 1/2-inch pieces.
Measure out your other ingredients while you wait for the eggplant to sweat.

Cover eggplant with more towel and press it down, then roll it up and SQUEEZE out the water and salt as much as you can. 
Don't be gentle, at this stage the eggplant is simply a sponge, and the less water it has in it the better! It will plump 
up again and be saturated with deliciousness from all the other ingredients.

Once all your ingredients are laid out, heat the oil in a heavy large skillet over medium heat--careful not to get it too hot, 
olive oil scorches at a relatively low temperature.

Add the celery and fry about 2 minutes. Add half the onion and the eggplant and fry about 2 more minutes. Season with salt 
(about 1/2 tsp should be fine for one eggplant). Add the bell peppers and cook about 5 minutes. Add the remaining onion 
and fry until translucent, about 3 minutes. Add the diced tomatoes with their juices, raisins, and oregano. Season again 
with salt and pepper to taste. Simmer over medium-low heat until the flavors blend and the mixture thickens, stirring 
often, about 20 minutes. Add the vinegar, sugar, and capers (and/or olives). Season once more with salt and pepper, if needed.

Serve hot over pasta, as an open-faced warm sandwich over ciabatta bread or other toast, with fresh mozzarella if desired, 
or chill and serve the next day. I find this always taste better the next day so I usually try to make a double batch so 
there are plenty of left-overs to share.



PCP - Pepper Cheese Puffs

WARNING Once you try this recipe you can never go back. You will continually crave these things day after day and if you 
don't get your fix there will be hell to pay.

1 Red Bell Pepper
8oz Cream Cheese
1 cup shredded chedder cheese
1 pkg Puff Pastry
3 tsb melted butter

Preheat oven according to puff pastry package recommended settings. Dice the bell pepper in a food processor, drain exceeds water.
In a bowl, combine cream cheese, chedder cheese, and diced bell pepper bits. This is your filling.
Roll out puff pastry dough (may have to dust it with flour). Cut each sheet into 9 squares using the folds as a guide.
Place 2 tsb of filling into each square. Lightly wash the edges of the puff pastry and fold into a triangle. 
Press firmly and crimp with fork to make sure there are no large air pockets inside.
Coat each triangle with a layer of melted butter.
Spray baking sheet with non-stick spray. Place triangles on sheet approximately 2-3" apart.
Remove from oven when golden brown (approximately 8-12 min).
Let cool for 5 minutes (cheese can be extremely hot)
Enjoy. You have been warned.

Other note: "once the puff pastry's rolled out, you can also just spread all the ingredients flat onto it, roll it up like a sleeping bag 
             and then cut slices to make swirly little fancy things"



FRANK'S REDHOT BUFFALO CHICKEN DIP 

8 oz. pkg. cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup blue cheese or ranch salad dressing
1/2 cup FRANK'S REDHOT Original Cayenne Pepper Sauce or FRANK'S REDHOT Buffalo Wing Sauce
1/2 cup crumbled blue cheese or shredded mozzarella cheese
1.5 lbs cooked chicken, cubed (you can used canned chicken if necessary)

HEAT oven to 350°F. Place cream cheese into deep baking dish. Stir until smooth.
MIX in salad dressing, Frank's RedHot Sauce and cheese. Stir in chicken.
BAKE 20 min. or until mixture is heated through; stir. Garnish as desired. Serve with crackers or vegetables.

Notes: Or PUT in CROCKPOT on low until it is HOT and BUBBLY and READY to EAT.



Basque chicken

6 chicken legs
1 green pepper
1 yellow pepper
1 red pepper
2 big onions
2 garlic cloves
75 cl of tomato sauce
red wine
Provence herbs
salt
pepper

fry the chicken legs on both face
slice the green, yellow and red pepper
slice the onion and the garlic after removing the green sprout
add all the ingredients into a big pot including the tomato sauce, the spices and a bit of red wine
let it cook until the chicken legs are ready


	
	
Terry's Texas Pinto Beans

    1 pound dry pinto beans
    1 (29 ounce) can reduced sodium chicken broth
    1 large onion, chopped
    1 fresh jalapeno pepper, chopped
    2 cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 cup green salsa
    1 teaspoon cumin
    1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
    water, if needed
	
Place the pinto beans in a large pot, and pour in the chicken broth. 
Stir in onion, jalapeno, garlic, salsa, cumin, and pepper. 
Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium-low, and continue cooking 2 hours, stirring often, until beans are tender. 
Add water as needed to keep the beans moist.

Notes: Excellent! The green salsa adds a great layer of flavor.


Chicken Fajita Marinade

2 Tbsp lime juice
3 Tbsp olive oil
1 garlic clove, minced
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 jalapeno, seeded and minced
1/4 cup chopped cilantro
	
Mix together; add 1-2 lbs chicken breast (sliced or halved).

Cook chicken over high heat, allowing a proper sear to form. Turn once.
Remove chicken from pan to plate. Add sliced vegetables. Sear, turning occasionally.
Slice chicken across grain if using whole chicken breasts. Add chicken to vegetables; stir.

Notes: Very good! I did not have cilantro or jalapeno so instead I used a bit more ground ancho than the
recipe called for chili powder.



Memphis Rub for Ribs

    2 tablespoons garlic powder
    2 tablespoons onion powder
    2 tablespoons black pepper
    1 tablespoons salt
    2 tablespoons chili powder
    2 tablespoons cumin powder
    2 tablespoons brown sugar
    3 to 4 tablespoons paprika
    2 teaspoons cayenne pepper
	
Notes: This is a nice rib rub and is pretty close to what I generally throw together on my own.
	
	
	
Chipotle Cilantro Ranch Dressing

2 Chipotle chilies from a can of chipotles in adobo sauce (rinse off adobo sauce)
4 Teaspoons of fresh lime juice
3/4 Cup of chopped cilantro leaves
1 1/4 Cup of plain greek yogurt
3/4 Cup of buttermilk
1 Teaspoon garlic powder
1 Teaspoon ground cumin
1 Teaspoon sea salt
1/2 Teaspoon dried oregano leaves

Using a food processor (or blender)
Add all ingredients into food processor
Place cover / lid on top and pulse on and off at high speed for 5 to 10 seconds at a time
After about 5 times the dressing should be completely chopped and blended
Pour into mason jar or other food safe container 


	
Paula Deen's Moist and Easy Cornbread

6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus butter for baking dish
1 cup cornmeal
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 1/2 cups buttermilk

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly grease an 8-inch baking dish.

In a large bowl, mix together the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.

In a separate bowl, mix together the eggs, buttermilk, and butter. Pour the buttermilk mixture into 
the cornmeal mixture and fold together until there are no dry spots (the batter will still be lumpy). 
Pour the batter into the prepared baking dish.

Bake until the top is golden brown and tester inserted into the middle of the corn bread comes out clean, 
about 20 to 25 minutes. Remove the cornbread from the oven and let it cool for 10 minutes before serving.


Random Internet Guy Chili

2 lbs Lean Ground Beef
1 Lb Ground Sausage
3 Garlic cloves, minced
1 Medium Onion, diced
Crimini Mushrooms, diced (I use roughly as many mushrooms as I do bell peppers)
1 Red Bell Pepper, diced
1 Green Bell pepper, diced
4 Chipotles in adobe sauce, or to taste
1 Can Black Beans
1 Can Chicken Broth
1 8oz (236 ml) Can Tomato Sauce
1 Small Can Diced Tomatoes

2 TBSP Paprika
3 TBSP Chili Powder
1 TBSP Cumin
1 TBSP Ancho Powder (or any pure pepper powder like chipotle, cayenne, whatever)
1 Tsp Dried Oregano
1 Tsp Sugar
1 Tsp Salt
1 Tsp Pepper

Directions:

    Prep all ingredients (Dice veg, measure spices, open the cans, etc...).
    Brown Beef, Drain, set aside
    Brown Sausage, Drain, set aside
    Saute Onion and Garlic until it has some nice color to it and is tender
    Combine all ingredients together
    Simmer on low 3 hours.
	

	
Dolmades - Stuffed Grape Leaves
[From a Foodies Greek cooking class Jon and Kate attended in 2006]

Dolmades and Stuffing:
8 oz package/jar grape leaves preserved in brine, large stems trimmed
2/3 cup Arborio rice
pinch of salt
2 T olive oil
1 small onion, finely chopped
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1/3 cup pine nuts
1/3 cup raisins or currants (J+K prefer currants)
3 scallions, finely chopped
1 T chopped fresh mint
1 T chopped fresh dill
2 T chopped fresh flat leaf parsley
salt and pepper

Simmering solution:
3/4 cup olive oil
juice of 1 lemon
2/3 cup water

Drain grape leaves, unroll and place in large bowl. Boil some water and add to bowl; soak 20 mins.
Drain bowl, soak leaves again in water for about 20 more minutes; drain again.
Cook rice according to package directions until tender.
Heat olive oil in skillet, sweat onion until soft and then add garlic. Cook about 1 minute more - do 
  not allow garlic to burn. Remove from heat and add pine nuts, raisins/currants, scallions, herbs and rice.
  Season with s&p.
Use only the nicest leaves you can find for stuffing. Discards can be used during the simmering process.
Place leaf on working surface vein side up. Place about 1 T filling in the center of the leaf. Fold up the bottom,
  then the sides inward (burrito folding style). Roll leaf and place seam side down on tray. Use light pressure - 
  you want the rolls firm and tight but not with the filling bulging out of the leaf.
Line the bottom of a large dutch oven/saute pan with the discarded grape leaves. Place rolled dolmades in the pot,
  seam side down. Pack them fairly closely so they can't move easily. It is ok to make more than one layer if necessary.
  Mix olive oil, lemon juice and water and pour into pot. Place a flame-proof plate over the dolmades to hold them in 
  place during cooking. Place on medium heat and simmer for 45 minutes or until the water is mostly absorbed/evaporated.

Serve warm or chilled. Excellent with tzatziki sauce, aioli, etc.

Notes: These are the best dolmades we've eaten, hands down. The fresh herbs, pine nuts and currants make them
very flavorful and savory, far superior to the plain white rice dolmades that are supermarket popular. They take a while
to make but are really worth the effort. Draft everybody within reach and it will go quickly!



Cottage Pudding 
(a Grammy Coutts recipe)

2 cups flour
1 cup sugar
2 1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt
1 egg 
3 T butter or margarine, melted
2/3 cup milk
1 tsp vanilla

Preheat oven to 350F.
In a large bowl combine dry intredients.
In a small bowl beat the eggs; add melted butter, milk and vanilla.
Pour over dry ingredients and beat on medium speed for 2 minutes.
Pour into greased 9" cake pan. Bake 40 minutes or until top of cake springs back when touched.
Serve warm with sauce of choice.
Holiday Variation: Stir 2 cups whole fresh cranberries into batter before pouring into pan. Serve
with butter sauce.


Butter Sauce
(a Grammy Coutts recipe)

1 cup (2 sticks) butter
2 cups brown sugar
1 1/2 cups half and half
1 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
dash of salt

In saucepan melt butter over low heat. Add remaining ingredients. Cook for about 5 minutes, stirring
constantly until sugar is completely dissolved. Do not reheat; will curdle.


Crockpot North Carolina Barbeque

Ingredients
    2 onions, quartered
    2 T brown sugar
    1 T smoked paprika
    2 t salt
  1/2 t ground black pepper
    1 (4-6 lb) pork butt or shoulder roast
    1 T liquid smoke
    1 c cider vinegar
  1/3 c Worcestershire sauce
1 1/2 t crushed red pepper flakes
    2 t sugar
  1/2 t dry mustard
  1/2 t granulated garlic
  1/4 t cayenne pepper

Instructions
    Place onions in crock pot.
    Blend brown sugar, paprika, salt and pepper; rub over roast.
    Place roast in crock pot. Drizzle liquid smoke over roast.
    Combine vinegar, Worcestershire sauce, red pepper flakes, sugar, mustard, garlic and cayenne pepper and stir to mix well.
    Drizzle about 1/3 of mixture over roast. Cover and refrigerate remaining mixture.
    Cook roast on low for 8-10 hours.
    Remove meat and onions, discard onions and shred meat. Add juices from crock pot and remaining vinegar mixture (a portion may be reserved to pass).
    Serve plain or as sandwiches.

	
	
Double Chocolate Layer Cake

For cake layers

    3 ounces fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
    1 1/2 cups hot brewed coffee
    3 cups sugar
    2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
    1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
    2 teaspoons baking soda
    3/4 teaspoon baking powder
    1 1/4 teaspoons salt
    3 large eggs
    3/4 cup vegetable oil
    1 1/2 cups well-shaken buttermilk
    3/4 teaspoon vanilla

For ganache frosting

    1 pound fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
    1 cup heavy cream
    2 tablespoons sugar
    2 tablespoons light corn syrup
    1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter

    two 10- by 2-inch round cake pans

Make cake layers:
Preheat oven to 300°F. and grease pans. Line bottoms with rounds of wax paper and grease paper.

Finely chop chocolate and in a bowl combine with hot coffee. Let mixture stand, stirring occasionally, 
until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth.

Into a large bowl sift together sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. 
In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs until thickened slightly and lemon colored 
  (about 3 minutes with a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a hand-held mixer). 
Slowly add oil, buttermilk, vanilla, and melted chocolate mixture to eggs, beating until combined well. 
Add sugar mixture and beat on medium speed until just combined well. Divide batter between pans and 
  bake in middle of oven until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes.

Cool layers completely in pans on racks. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert layers onto racks. 
Carefully remove wax paper and cool layers completely. 
Cake layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept, wrapped well in plastic wrap, at room temperature.

Make frosting:
Finely chop chocolate. In a 1 1/2- to 2-quart saucepan bring cream, sugar, and corn syrup to a boil over 
  moderately low heat, whisking until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, 
  whisking until chocolate is melted. 
Cut butter into pieces and add to frosting, whisking until smooth.

Transfer frosting to a bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until spreadable (depending on chocolate used, 
  it may be necessary to chill frosting to spreadable consistency).

Spread frosting between cake layers and over top and sides. 
Cake keeps, covered and chilled, 3 days. 
Bring cake to room temperature before serving.

	
Barbecue Pulled Chicken (Crockpot)	

    1 8-ounce can reduced-sodium tomato sauce
    1 4-ounce can chopped green chiles, drained
    3 tablespoons cider vinegar
    2 tablespoons honey
    1 tablespoon sweet or smoked paprika
    1 tablespoon tomato paste
    1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
    2 teaspoons dry mustard
    1 teaspoon ground chipotle chile
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    2 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed of fat
    1 small onion, finely chopped
    1 clove garlic, minced
	
Stir tomato sauce, chiles, vinegar, honey, paprika, tomato paste, Worcestershire sauce, mustard, ground chipotle and 
  salt in a 6-quart slow cooker until smooth. Add chicken, onion and garlic; stir to combine.
Put the lid on and cook on low until the chicken can be pulled apart, about 5 hours.
Transfer the chicken to a cutting board and shred with a fork. Return the chicken to the sauce, stir well and serve.

Notes: Very good and easy. I used a full 16 oz can of tomato sauce and slightly less chicken than called for;
the result was pretty saucy. The rest of the sauce ingredients go well together and make a convincing bbq 
sauce.


Crockpot French Toast

1/2 loaf of bread

Combine:
6 eggs, 1 c milk, 1 tsp cinnamon, 1 tbsp light brown sugar, and 1 tsp vanilla

Use cooking spray to grease your crock pot!
Dunk each piece of bread into the egg mixture and place inside the greased crockpot. 
Pour remaining egg mixture over the top of the bread.  Set crockpot to lowest cooking setting. 
"Warm" is not a cooking setting, so set your crock pot to LOW.  Place cover ontop. 
Do not over fill your crockpot. Cook for 6- 8 hours. Mine cooked in 7.
In the morning you will find a fluffly, bread pudding-souffle like breakfast.  
You will see cooked egg on the edges of the bread slices. Carefully remove the lid about 
15 minutes before its done and it will brown and toast.


Broccoli Salad

2 heads fresh broccoli
1 red onion
1/2 pound bacon
3/4 cup raisins
3/4 cup sliced almonds
1 cup mayonnaise
1/2 cup white sugar
2 tablespoons white wine vinegar

Place bacon in a deep skillet and cook over medium high heat until evenly brown. 
  Cool and crumble.
Cut the broccoli into bite-size pieces and cut the onion into thin bite-size slices. 
  Combine with the bacon, raisins, your favorite nuts and mix well.
To prepare the dressing, mix the mayonnaise, sugar and vinegar together until smooth. 
  Stir into the salad, let chill and serve.

Notes: Simple and good. The dressing is pretty sweet but brings out the natural sweetness
of the broccoli nicely. Be careful in pouring the dressing over the rest of the salad;
it might not require the entire batch. We used sunflower seed kernals instead of sliced
almonds and those were very good in the salad.
  

  
Chicken and Wild Rice Soup

    6 tbsp butter (3/4 stick)
    1/4 small onion, minced (about 2-3 tbsp)
    1/2 cup flour
    3 cups chicken broth
    2 cups cooked wild rice
    1/2 tsp salt
    2 cups milk
    2 chicken breasts, cubed
    1 medium carrot, finely chopped
    2-3 tbsp slivered almonds
    2 oz mushrooms (optional)

Boil chicken in the chicken stock for 10 minutes. Pour the stock+chicken into a pot with the wild rice, 
carrot, salt, almond, and mushroom. Melt butter in pan and sautee the onions in it. Add flour and mix. 
Pour the milk into the flour-butter mixture a little at a time with constant stirring, until blended 
smooth. Add white sauce to the pot and heat to serving temperature. Serve garnished with parsley.



French Onion Soup Stuffed Mushrooms

    2 Tablespoons Butter
    2 whole Large Onions, Halved And Sliced Thin
    1/4 cup Beef Broth
    7 dashes Worcestershire Sauce
    Splash Of Red Or White Wine
    1/2 cup Grated Gruyere Cheese (can Use Swiss)
    Kosher Salt
    24 whole White Or Crimini Mushrooms, Washed And Stems Removed
    Minced Parsley


In a medium skillet, melt 1 tablespoon butter over medium heat. Add onions and saute for 15 to 20 minutes, 
stirring occasionally, until very soft. Splash in wine, broth, and Worcestershire. 
Cook for another 5 minutes, or until liquid is cooked down. Set aside.

Melt 1 tablespoon butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Throw in mushrooms and toss around for 2 minutes, 
just to start the cooking process. Sprinkle mushrooms with salt.

Place mushroom caps face down in a baking dish. Heap cavity with sauteed mushrooms, then sprinkle Gruyere over the top. 
Bake at 10 minutes on 325 degrees. Turn on broiler and broil for a couple of minutes, until the top of the Gruyere 
starts to bubble and slightly turn brown.

Sprinkle minced parsley over the top and serve.



Baked Jalapeno Poppers

12 jalapeno peppers, about 2 1/2-inches long
1 cup grated sharp Cheddar cheese
3 ounces cream cheese, softened
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon ground chipotle pepper
2 large eggs
2/3 cup dry unseasoned breadcrumbs
1/2 teaspoon salt
sour cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly grease a bak­ing sheet and set aside.

Carefully slice peppers in half lengthwise. Scrape out and discard the seeds and membranes.

Combine the cheddar cheese, cream cheese, garlic powder, and chipotle pepper in a bowl. 
Mix until well combined. Spoon the mixture into each pepper half, pressing down to fill them solidly.

Beat the eggs in a bowl until frothy. In a zip-top bag, combine the breadcrumbs and salt. 
Dip the filled pepper halves into the egg, then toss in the bag with the breadcrumbs until evenly coated.

Place the coated peppers on the prepared baking sheet. Bake until golden brown, about 30 minutes. 
Serve hot.

Notes: These are extremely good! I was unsure I wanted to add the chipotle to the cheese mix at first but
it turned out to be great. The extra heat was balanced out by the cheddar/cream cheese. Further note - large
jalapenos may require 5-10 more minutes of cooking time.


Bacon Wrapped Dates

Cut American bacon slices into thirds. 
Wrap sliced third around each date, and pin with a tooth pick. 
Bake at 400F for approx 10-15 minutes.

Or stuff dates with goat cheese or blue cheese and bake. Optionally
roll dates in brown sugar before baking.

Notes: Yummy! You can make thick-cut bacon work but I think the thinner cut would be better.


Slow Cooker Chicken Massaman Curry

3 Tbsp red Thai curry paste (I used mild)
1 tsp grated fresh ginger
1 1/2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken thighs 
2 Tbsp brown sugar
3 Tbsp fish sauce
3 Tbsp Worcestershire sauce
1/3 cup peanut butter
3 baked Russet potatoes, cut into cubes
1 (13.5 oz) can coconut milk
1 fresh lime, juiced
2 Tbsp quick-cooking tapioca
Garnish with peanuts and cilantro, if desired

1. Combine curry paste, ginger, brown sugar, fish sauce, Worcestershire sauce, peanut butter, coconut milk, 
   lime juice and tapioca in the slow cooker and stir to combine.
2.  Gently stir in the potatoes.
3.  Nestle the chicken in the slow cooker.
4.  Cover and cook on LOW for 4-6 hours.  Chicken should be nice and tender.
5.  Remove chicken and place on a cutting board.  Cut into bite size pieces or shred.  Add back into the slow 
    cooker.
6  Serve chicken and curry over hot cooked rice.

*An alternative way of making this, if you don't have baked potatoes on hand is to peel and cube uncooked potatoes.  
 Then add the chicken in frozen.  This will ensure that the uncooked potatoes and the chicken will cook at the same 
 rate.

 
 
Hungarian Paprika Sauce

2 tablespoons bacon or 2 tablespoons butter or 2 tablespoons vegetable oil or 2 tablespoons olive oil
2 medium onions, chopped
1 large tomato, peeled and chopped
2 tablespoons paprika
1 teaspoon salt
1 sweet pepper, chopped (red, orange or yellow)
1/2 cup sour cream

Saute the onions in the fat until they are soft.
Add the tomato, paprika, salt and bell pepper.
Continue cooking the sauce for an additional 20 minutes.
Remove from the heat and stir in the sour cream
 
Notes: A really good general-purpose sauce. It has all the elements you'd expect from a Hungarian sauce - 
creamy with a nice paprika flavor. We used it on leftover turkey breast but it would be great with noodles
too.


Fresh Green Beans, Fennel, and Feta Cheese

1 pound fresh green beans, trimmed
1 fennel bulb, cut into thin slices
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil leaves
salt and pepper to taste
1/4 cup crumbled feta cheese

Fill a saucepan half full with water and bring to a boil. 
Add the green beans and fennel slices; cook until just beginning to become tender, about 4 minutes. 
Pour into a colander to drain and run under cold water to stop the cooking process.
Return the empty pan to the stove and set heat to medium. Pour in the olive oil and let it heat for a minute. 
Return the green beans and fennel to the pan. 
Season with basil, salt, and pepper; cook and stir until coated and warm. 
Transfer to a serving dish and toss with feta cheese.

Notes: Very good! A nice different combination of flavors. Good way to use a fennel bulb.


Mediterranean Chicken with Eggplant

3 eggplants, peeled and cut lengthwise
into 1/2 inch thick slices
3 tablespoons olive oil
6 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves - diced
1 onion, diced
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1/2 cup water
2 teaspoons dried oregano
salt and pepper to taste

Place eggplant strips in a big pot of lightly salted water and soak for 30 minutes (this will improve the taste; they will leave a brown color in the pot).
Remove eggplant from pot and brush lightly with olive oil. Saute or grill until lightly browned and place in a 9x13 inch baking dish. Set aside.
Saute diced chicken and onion in a large skillet over medium heat. Stir in tomato paste and water, cover skillet, reduce heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C).
Pour chicken/tomato mixture over eggplant. Season with oregano, salt and pepper and cover with aluminum foil. Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.


Baingan Bharta (Eggplant Curry)

1 large eggplant
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon cumin seeds
1 medium onion, thinly sliced
1 tablespoon ginger garlic paste
1 tablespoon curry powder
1 tomato, diced
1/2 cup plain yogurt
1 fresh jalapeno chile pepper, finely
chopped
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 bunch cilantro, finely chopped

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (230 degrees C).
Place eggplant on a medium baking sheet. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in the preheated oven, until tender. Remove from heat, cool, peel, and chop.
Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Mix in cumin seeds and onion. Cook and stir until onion is tender.
Mix ginger garlic paste, curry powder, and tomato into the saucepan, and cook about 1 minute. Stir in yogurt. 
Mix in eggplant and jalapeno pepper, and season with salt. Cover, and cook 10 minutes over high heat. 
Remove cover, reduce heat to low, and continue cooking about 5 minutes. Garnish with cilantro to serve.


Crock Pot Beef Burgundy

4 slices bacon
2 lbs beef stew meat
2 carrots, cut into chunks
1 onion, sliced
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon dried marjoram
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon pepper
12 ounces condensed beef broth
1/2 cup Burgundy wine ( or other dry red wine)
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce
3 cups sliced fresh mushrooms
16 ounces egg noodles, uncooked
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

Directions

Cook bacon until crisp; drain, and crumble.
Place beef, bacon, carrots, and onions in the bottom of the crock pot.
Whisk together flour, marjoram, garlic, and pepper with broth, wine and Worcestershire sauce.
Pour mixture into crockpot.
Cook on high for 1 hour.
Reduce to low and cook for 5-6 hours.
Add mushrooms to crock pot.
Cook on high for 30 minutes or until mushrooms are cooked to your liking.
While mushrooms are cooking, prepare noodles according to package directions.
Serve beef over noodles garnished with parsley, if desired.


Zucchini Bites

1 cups zucchini, grated
1 egg (1 large egg equals 3-4 tbsp when whisked together)
1/4 yellow onion, diced
1/4 cup cheese (cheddar or Parmesan work the best)
1/4 cup bread crumbs - I used Italian style
Salt and Pepper

1. Preheat oven to 400F. Spray a mini-muffin tin with non-stick spray, set aside.
2. Grate the zucchini and then place in a dish towel to squeeze out the excess water- like when using 
   frozen spinach; if you skip this part, the middle of the zucchini tots will be really soggy while 
   the outside gets crispy and no one wants that.
3. In a bowl combine, the egg, onion, cheese, bread crumbs, zucchini, salt and pepper.
4. Using a spoon or a cookie scoop, fill the muffin cups to the top. Bake for 15-18 minutes, or until 
   the top is browned and set.
   
Notes: Excellent and easy to make! I added a little fresh basil and one clove of minced garlic. Very good.
I used a scant 1/4 cup of bread crumb; maybe corn meal could be substituted?


Corn Chowder

2 tablespoons butter
Extra-virgin olive oil
1 onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
6 sprigs fresh thyme, leaves only
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
6 cups canned vegetable stock
2 cups heavy cream
2 Idaho potatoes, peeled and diced
6 ears corn
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves

Heat the butter and 1 tablespoon olive oil in a soup pot over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and 
thyme and cook until the vegetables are good and soft, 8 to 10 minutes. Dust the vegetables with flour 
and stir to coat everything well. Pour in the vegetable stock and bring to a boil. Add the cream and 
the potatoes, bring to a boil and boil hard for about 7 minutes, until the potatoes break down 
(this will help to thicken the soup and give it a good texture).

Cut the corn kernels off the cob and add to the soup. Season with salt and pepper and simmer until 
the corn is soft, about 10 to 12 minutes. Stir in the parsley and give it another little drink of 
olive oil. Ladle the soup into bowls and serve.

Notes: Really nice corn flavor. An excellent way to save excess supply in the freezer for a taste of
summer in the winter.


Corn Relish

8 ears corn, husked and cleaned
2 pounds tomatoes - peeled, seeded, and
coarsely chopped
1 1/2 cups chopped green bell peppers
3/4 cup chopped red bell pepper
1/2 cucumber, chopped
1 cup chopped onion
1 cup white sugar
2 cups apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon salt
1 teaspoon celery seed
1 teaspoon mustard seed

1. 	Cut the corn from the cobs. Scrape the cobs with a large spoon to remove remaining juices.
2. 	In a large saucepan, mix the corn kernels and juice, tomatoes, green bell peppers, red bell peppers, cucumber and onion.
3. 	In a medium bowl, mix the sugar, apple cider vinegar, salt, celery seed and mustard seed. Pour into the saucepan over vegetable mixture. 
    Bring to a boil, then simmer 1 hour.
4. 	Transfer the finished relish to sterile jars. Refrigerate until serving.

Not sure about this one - need to try other corn relishes to compare. I was somewhat put off by the
heavy vinegar/sweet pickle flavor and couldn't really taste the corn. Is this what all corn relishes are like?


Earl Grey Tea Cookies 

(Adapted from Real Simple)

Makes about 6 dozen cookies.

    2 cups all-purpose flour
    1/2 cup granulated sugar
    1/2 cup confectioners’ sugar
    2 tablespoons Earl Grey tea leaves, from approximately 6 tea bags
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
    1 cup unsalted butter, cut into pieces
    1 tablespoon freshly grated orange zest

 In a food processor, pulse together the flour, sugars, tea leaves, and salt until the tea leaves are completely pulverized.
 Add the vanilla, one teaspoon water, the butter, and orange zest.  Pulse together until a dough is formed.
 Divide the dough in half.  Roll each half out into a log shaped, about 12 inches in length and about 2 inches in diameter. Wrap tightly and chill for about 30 minutes, until dough is firm.
 Remove dough from refrigerator and slice into disks about 1/3 of an inch thick.  Place on a foil lined baking sheet, about two inches apart.
 Heat oven to 375 degrees. Bake cookies until edges are just browned, about 12 minutes.  Let cool for five minutes, then transfer to a wire rack.
 
 
 
 Sausage and Apple Stuffed Acorn Squash
 
        2 acorn squash, halved and seeded
        1 tablespoon butter, melted
        1/4 teaspoon garlic salt
        1/4 teaspoon ground sage
        1 lb pork sausage ( regular seasoning)
        1/2 cup onion, finely chopped
        1 celery rib, finely chopped
        4 ounces mushrooms, chopped
        2 apples, cored and chopped ( macintosh)
        1 cup fine breadcrumbs
        1/2 teaspoon sage
        salt and pepper
        1 egg, beaten
        2 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped

    Combine the melted butter, garlic salt and 1/4 teaspoons sage; brush over cut sides and cavity of squash. Salt and pepper to taste.
    Bake in a large roasting pan, cut side up, at 400 degrees F for 1 hour, until squash is tender yet still holds its shape.
    Meanwhile make stuffing: Fry pork sausage until light brown. Remove pork to a colander to drain. Drain all but 2 tablespoons drippings from frypan. 
	Add onion, celery and mushroom; saute 4 minutes. Stir in apple and saute 2 more minutes.
    Combine the pork, vegetables, and breadcrumbs in a large bowl.
    Taste and season with sage, salt or pepper if needed (depending on your sausage you may not want to add more seasoning).
    Stir in the egg and parsley.
    Fill the squash halves with stuffing-they should be slightly mounded.
    Return to oven and bake, covered, for 20 more minutes, until the egg is set.
    Garnish as desired with parsley and shredded romano cheese.
	
Notes: Good and different. A nice hearty meal for a cool night.

	
http://www.top10kitchen.com/top-10-buffalo-chicken-recipes/


Homemade red enchilada sauce

Makes enough enchiladas for 2-4 people

2tbsp cooking oil
1tbsp plain flour
1tsp cayenne chilli pepper
1tsp mild chilli powder
1/2tsp garlic powder
1tbsp tomato purée
200ml vegetable stock

In a saucepan, heat the oil slightly. 
Add the flour and spices, and cook over a very low heat for 1 minute, whisking continually. 
Then add the tomato purée and cook for a further 1-2 minutes, again whisking all the time. 
Add the vegetable stock, and whisk again to combine. 
Turn the heat up to medium, and once the sauce has begun to simmer, and has come together 
  to form a silky sauce, it is ready to be used.
  
  
Curried Carrot, Sweet Potato, and Ginger Soup

2 teaspoons canola oil
1/2 cup chopped shallots
3 cups (1/2-inch) cubed peeled sweet potato
1 1/2 cups (1/4-inch) sliced peeled carrots
1 tablespoon grated ginger
2 teaspoons curry powder
3 cups fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. 
Add shallots; saute 3 minutes or until tender. 
Add potato, carrots, ginger, and curry; cook 2 minutes. 
Add broth; bring to a boil. 
Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 25 minutes or until vegetables are tender; stir in salt.
Pour half of soup in a food processor; pulse until smooth. Repeat procedure with remaining soup.


Szechuan French Green Beans

    1 lb french green beans, ends trimmed
    5 tbsp soy sauce
    2 tbsp sesame oil
    1 tbsp cider vinegar
    1 tbsp red wine
    2 tbsp sugar
    2 tbsp olive oil
    1 small onion, minced
    3 garlic cloves, minced
    3 tsp fresh ginger, minced
    5 tbsp scallions, minced
    2 tsp red pepper flakes

    Steam green beans for 5-minutes.
    Rinse with cold water and drain.
    Combine soy sauce, sesame oil, vinegar, wine, and sugar in a small bowl.
    Heat oil in large skillet and stir-fry beans for 1 minute.
    Set beans aside on a platter.
    Reheat oil and add onion, garlic, ginger, scallions, and red pepper flakes and stir-fry for 30 seconds.
    Return beans to skillet and fry for an additional minute.
    Add sauce and coat beans well.
    Serve immediately.

	
Spicy Garlic Shrimp

    2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, 2 turns of the pan
    4 cloves garlic
    1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
    24 jumbo shrimp, peeled and deveined
    2 teaspoons grill or steak seasoning blend or coarse salt and pepper
    1 lemon, zested and juiced
    2 tablespoons chopped parsley leaves, a handful


Slow Cooker Shredded Korean Beef Tacos 

3-4 pounds beef roast (I used a trimmed chuck roast)
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/3 cup soy sauce (La Choy and Tamari Wheat-Free are gluten free)
1 head garlic (peeled, but leave cloves intact--approx 10 cloves)
1/2 onion, diced
1 inch fresh ginger root, peeled and grated
2 tablespoons seasoned rice wine vinegar
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 whole jalapeno, diced

Trim excess fat off meat. Dump everything into crock pot. Cook 8-10 hours then eat.
Excellent with shredded cabbage salad:
   1 bag shredded coleslaw from the grocery store's produce section
   1 tablespoon soy sauce (la choy or tamari wheat-free)
   2 tablespoons seasoned rice vinegar
   salt and pepper to taste
   toss together and serve immediately
   
   
Vichyssoise

2 leeks, chopped
1 onion, chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup thinly sliced potatoes
2 1/3 cups chicken stock
salt to taste
ground black pepper to taste
1 1/8 cups heavy whipping cream

Gently sweat the chopped leeks and the chopped onion in butter or margarine until soft, about 8 minutes. Do NOT let them brown.
Add potatoes and stock to the saucepan. Salt and pepper to taste. Bring to the boil, and simmer very gently for 30 minutes.
Puree in a blender or food processor until very smooth. Cool. Gently stir in the cream before serving.

Notes: May not require entirety of cream. Add 1/4 to 1/2 cup at a time. Garnish with chives or green onions and bacon crumbles if desired.


Skillet Cornbread

1c flour
1c yellow cornmeal
1/2 t salt
1 t baking soda
2 t baking powder
1/3 c brown sugar
3 T oil
1 1/2 c buttermilk (or milk + 2T vinegar) 
2 eggs

Preheat oven to 425, pour a liberal amount of oil into cast iron skillet and put in the oven while preheating. 
Whisk together all listed ingredients in a bowl. Remove pan from oven and pour batter into the hot oil. 
Watch like a delighted child as the oil instantly starts searing a crust before your very eyes! 
Put it back in the oven for 20min, check the center with a knife. 
If it comes out clean, it's done - if not, give it 5 more minutes and try again. 



Five-Ingredient Smoked Salmon and Potato Salad

    2 pounds fingerling or new potatoes, preferably a red or yellow waxy variety, sliced into 1/2-inch coins
    Kosher salt
    3/4 cup sour cream or crème fraîche
    1 tablespoon juice from 1 lemon
    3 ounces smoked salmon (see note above), finely chopped
    1/4 cup finely chopped fresh herbs such as parsley, chives, tarragon, or scallions
    Freshly ground black pepper

In a large pot, cover potatoes with water by 1 inch and season heavily with salt. 
Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce to a simmer, and cook until potatoes are easily pierced with a wooden 
skewer or the tip of a paring knife, about 15 minutes. Drain and let cool slightly.

Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine sour cream lemon juice, chopped salmon, and herbs. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

When potatoes have cooled slightly but are still warm, add to bowl and toss to combine and coat with dressing. Serve. 
Salad can be kept in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Serve cold or allow to come to room temperature.

Notes: This is good! The flavors are simple but nicely layered.


Cranberry Upside-Down Cake
Serves 8 to 10

You will need a 9- or 10-inch cake pan with at least 2-inch high sides for this recipe. Adapted from Simplyrecipes.com.

4 Tbsp. (1/4 cup or 1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/ 4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
12 oz. fresh or frozen cranberries
1? 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 tsp. baking powder
1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 tsp. ground ginger
1/4 tsp. ground cinnamon
Scant pinch ground cloves
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, room temp (plus more for buttering the pan)
3 large eggs
1 Tbsp. orange zest
1/2 cup sour cream (or plain yogurt)
1/4 cup of milk

1. Generously butter the bottom and sides of a 9- or 10-inch diameter cake pan.

2. In a small saucepan, place the 1/4 cup of butter and the 3/4 cups of packed brown sugar. On medium high heat, 
   stir the sugar as the butter melts. Do not stir after the butter has melted.

3. Pour the brown sugar butter mixture into the prepared cake pan. Spread the cranberries on top of the sugar butter mixture.

4. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a medium bowl, vigorously whisk together the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and cloves.

5. In a separate bowl, use an electric mixer to beat the butter until light. Add the sugar and beat together the 
   sugar and butter until fluffy. Add the eggs one at a time, beating after each addition. Stir in the orange zest.

6. Mix a third of the dry ingredients into the mixture. Beat in half of the sour cream. Mix in another third of the 
   dry ingredients. Mix in the remaining sour cream. Beat in the remaining dry ingredients and then the milk.

7. Pour batter over the cranberries in the cake pan, and smooth the surface. Place in the preheated oven and lower 
   the heat from 350 degrees to 325 degrees. Bake until a tester comes out clean, 55 minutes to an hour. 
   Cool cake in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes. Run a blunt knife around the inside rim of the cake pan to loosen 
   the cake from the sides of the pan. Then turn the cake out onto a platter.



More Home-made Green Bean Casserole

  We loved making green bean casserole with fresh green beans but I wanted to stop using cans of condensed soup as well.
  
1 pound green beans

Topping:
2 medium onions, thinly sliced
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons panko bread crumbs
1 teaspoon kosher salt
Nonstick cooking spray

Mushroom Sauce  
2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
1 pound fresh green beans, rinsed, trimmed and halved
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
12 ounces mushrooms, trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground nutmeg
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 cup chicken broth
1 cup half-and-half

Topping:
Preheat the oven to 475 degrees F.

Combine the onions, flour, panko and salt in a large mixing bowl and toss to combine. 
Coat a sheet pan with nonstick cooking spray and evenly spread the onions on the pan. 
Place the pan on the middle rack of the oven and bake until golden brown, approximately 30 minutes. 
Toss the onions 2 to 3 times during cooking. 
Once done, remove from the oven and set aside until ready to use. Turn the oven down to 400 degrees F.

Beans:
While the onions are cooking, prepare the beans. Bring a gallon of water and 2 tablespoons of salt to a 
boil in an 8-quart saucepan. Add the beans and blanch for 5 minutes. Drain in a colander and immediately 
plunge the beans into a large bowl of ice water to stop the cooking. Drain and set aside.
OR
Lightly steam them and skip using a gallon of water plus more for the ice water bath. They still need to be
really crisp because they're going to cook further in the casserole.

Mushroom Sauce, Assembly of Casserole:
Melt the butter in a 12-inch cast iron skillet set over medium-high heat. 
Add the mushrooms, 1 teaspoon salt and pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until the mushrooms begin to 
  give up some of their liquid, approximately 4 to 5 minutes. 
Add the garlic and nutmeg and continue to cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. 
Sprinkle the flour over the mixture and stir to combine. Cook for 1 minute. 
Add the broth and simmer for 1 minute. 
Decrease the heat to medium-low and add the half-and-half. Cook until the mixture thickens, stirring occasionally, 
  approximately 6 to 8 minutes.

Remove from the heat and stir in 1/4 of the onions and all of the green beans. Top with the remaining onions. 
Place into the oven (400 F) and bake until bubbly, approximately 15 minutes. Remove and serve immediately.

Notes: I included the entire recipe here. Sometime I may make the topping but so far I've used the canned
french fried onions to good effect. I steamed the green beans instead of blanching and they were fine. Other
things I did differently - I didn't use a cast iron pan; the seasoning on ours wasn't up to snuff. I made the sauce
in a large saute pan on the stove, added all the other ingredients and poured them into a casserole dish. I added
the onions for topping and baked at 450 (I missed the part about reducing temp to 400) for 12-15 minutes. I think the
400 degree temp would probably be better but it was very good!



Kickin' Collard Greens
  -AllRecipes.com
1 tablespoon olive oil
3 slices bacon
1 large onion, chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon salt	
1 teaspoon pepper
3 cups chicken broth
1 pinch red pepper flakes
1 pound fresh collard greens, cut into 2-inch pieces

1. 	Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add bacon, and cook until crisp. Remove bacon from pan, crumble and 
    return to the pan. Add onion, and cook until tender, about 5 minutes. Add garlic, and cook until just fragrant. 
	Add collard greens, and fry until they start to wilt.
2. 	Pour in chicken broth, and season with salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes. Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 
    for 45 minutes, or until greens are tender.

Notes: Really good and nice in that it takes only basic ingredients. The bacon-onion-garlic provides a great background
flavor. I usually just use the pinch of red pepper flakes but there's no reason not to grind your own hot spice mix.



Spicy Beef Kebabs
  - Alton Brown
1 1/2 to 2 pounds boneless beef sirloin
3 cloves garlic, minced
2 teaspoons smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/3 cup red wine vinegar
1/2 cup olive oil

Cut the beef into 1 1/2 to 1 3/4-inch cubes and place into a large mixing bowl. Set aside.

In the bowl of a food processor combine the garlic, paprika, turmeric, cumin, salt, pepper and red wine vinegar. 
With the processor running drizzle in the olive oil.

Pour the marinade over the meat and toss to coat. Place in the refrigerator in an airtight container or a sealable 
plastic bag and allow to marinate for 2 to 4 hours.

Preheat the grill to medium-high heat. Thread the meat onto the skewers leaving about 1/2-inch in between the 
pieces of meat. Place on the grill and cook, with lid lowered, 2 to 3 minutes per side, 8 to 12 minutes in all 
(8 minutes for rare and 12 for medium). Remove from the heat to aluminum foil, wrap and allow to rest for 2 to 
3 minutes prior to serving.

Notes: Really good marinade! I just hand-whisked the emulsion instead of dirtying the food processor and it turned out
just fine. I also broiled our kebab sirloin, though would have preferred it grilled. Tasty - I'll probably steal the
marinade for other purposes.



Peanut Butter Blossoms 

 Ingredients

    48 HERSHEY'S KISSES Brand Milk Chocolates
    1/2 cup shortening
    3/4 cup REESE'S Creamy Peanut Butter
    1/3 cup granulated sugar
    1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
    1 egg

    2 tablespoons milk
    1 teaspoon vanilla extract
    1-1/2 cups all-purpose flour
    1 teaspoon baking soda
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    Additional granulated sugar

Directions

1. Heat oven to 375°F. Remove wrappers from chocolates.

2. Beat shortening and peanut butter in large bowl until well blended. Add 1/3 cup granulated sugar and brown 
   sugar; beat until fluffy. Add egg, milk and vanilla; beat well. Stir together flour, baking soda and salt; 
   gradually beat into peanut butter mixture.

3. Shape dough into 1-inch balls. Roll in granulated sugar; place on ungreased cookie sheet.

4. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until lightly browned. Immediately press a chocolate into center of each cookie; 
   cookie will crack around edges. Remove from cookie sheet to wire rack. Cool completely.

Makes about 48 cookies.

Notes: We make these around Christmas; they're very popular and tend to be pleasently different from most of our 
other Christmas goodies.


Chocolate Pudding Trifle

Ingredients
Chocolate Cake:

Use your favorite chocolate cake recipe or even a box of your favorite chocolate cake mix. Allow cake to 
cool for 15 minutes before proceeding. Break up the cake into small pieces in a large bowl.

Chocolate Pudding Filling:

2 packages instant chocolate pudding mix
3 cups whole milk

Whipped Cream:

2 cups heavy cream
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Garnish:

About 1 cup chocolate wafer crumbs, or chocolate-sandwich cookies, crushed into crumbs

Prepare the chocolate cake as recommended above.
To prepare the chocolate pudding filling: In a large bowl, on the medium speed of an electric mixer, beat 
the instant pudding and the milk for 3 minutes. Place uncovered in the refrigerator and chill until set, 
about 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a medium-size bowl, whip the heavy cream with the sugar and the vanilla extract until soft 
peaks form, being careful not to overwhip.

To assemble the trifle: Place 1/3 of the cake in the bottom of a large glass bowl. Place over this 1/3 of 
the pudding mixture, spreading evenly with a rubber spatula. Spread 1/3 of the whipped cream over this. 
Sprinkle with 1/3 of the cookie crumbs. Proceed in this fashion until three layers have been assembled, 
ending with a dusting of the cookie crumbs. Refrigerate at least 2 hours, or overnight, before cutting 
and serving.

Notes: This is really good! It goes together quite easily. The homemade whipped cream is worth making.



Pork Stir Fry with Green Onion

    1 pound pork loin or boneless pork chops
    2 Tbsp soy sauce
    1 teaspoon sugar
    1 teaspoon corn starch
    4 Tbsp peanut oil or other high smoke point oil (canola, rice bran, or grape seed)
    5 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
    8-12 scallions/green onions, sliced diagonally into 1 to 2-inch pieces, green and white parts included
    1/2 teaspoon sesame oil (optional)

1 Cut pork in to bite-sized pieces or into a 1 1/4 x 1/4 x 1/2 julienne.

2 Put the soy sauce, sugar, and corn starch into a large bowl and whisk to combine.  Add the pork strips to 
  the bowl with the marinade and toss to coat completely. Set aside for at least 10 minutes.

3 Heat the peanut oil in a wok or large sauté pan on high heat. When the oil is hot (shimmering but not smoking) 
  add the garlic slices and stir-fry until they begin to turn brown at the edges, about 30 seconds. Add the pork 
  strips and stir-fry until the pork changes color, about 90 seconds, stirring constantly.

4 Add the sliced green onions and continue to stir-fry for another minute, or until the green onions wilt. 
  Turn off the heat and stir in the sesame oil, if using.
  
Notes: Simple but good. Goes together quickly.

  
  
Classic Mornay Sauce

2 1/2 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 cups warmed milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon white pepper
pinch freshly grated nutmeg (optional)
2 ounces grated cheese, such as Gruyere

In a medium saucepan melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the flour and cook, stirring constantly, until the 
roux is pale yellow and frothy, about 1 minute. Do not allow the roux to brown. Slowly whisk in the milk and continue 
to whisk until the sauce thickens and comes to a boil, about 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce the heat to a simmer and season 
with the salt, pepper and nutmeg. Allow to simmer for 2 to 3 minutes. This is now called a bechamel sauce, and may 
be used as is to top any number of dishes.

Stir in the cheese and whisk until melted. If the sauce seems too thick, thin with a little milk.

The sauce is now called a Mornay Sauce.


Simple Guacamole

2 avocados
1/4 small onion, finely chopped (or maybe cut back to 2-3 Tablespoons)
1 clove garlic, minced
1 small tomato, seeded and chopped
1 lime, juiced (or 2 if you like limey guac)
salt and pepper to taste
optional: chopped cilantro

Mash avocadoes, mix in lime juice. Add in rest of ingredients; season.

Notes: I like a bit of onion but too much covers the flavor of the avocado.


Green Chile-Chicken Enchiladas

Salsa Verde
12 tomatillos, husked and rinsed
2 jalapeno peppers, stemmed
1 onion, quartered
Splash white vinegar
Water
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 bunch fresh cilantro leaves, coarsely chopped
2 limes, juiced
Salt

Enchilada Filling
3 poblano peppers
Extra-virgin olive oil
1 onion, sliced
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
3 cups canned chicken stock
1 deli roasted chicken, about 3 pounds, boned, meat shredded
Leaves from 1/2 bunch fresh cilantro, chopped
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
12 large corn tortillas
1/2 pound Monterey jack cheese, shredded

Make the salsa: Put the tomatillos, jalapenos, and onion in a saucepan with the vinegar and water 
to cover. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat and poach until the tomatillos are soft, about 10 minutes. 
Drain. Put the vegetables in a blender, add the cumin, and puree. Add the cilantro, lime juice, and
salt, and pulse to combine. Set aside.

Meanwhile, place the poblano peppers directly over the flame on a gas stove and cook, turning with 
tongs, until the skin is charred and blackened. (Or, if you have an electric stove, put the chiles 
on a baking sheet and broil, turning with tongs, until the skin is blackened.) Skin the peppers; 
then seed, core, and dice them.

Heat a 2-count of olive oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add the onion and cook until 
softened and caramelized, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the garlic and cook 1 minute. Stir in the cumin and 
cook 1 minute. Then sprinkle on the flour and cook, stirring, 1 more minute. Gradually pour in the 
stock, stirring constantly. Bring to a simmer, stirring to make sure the flour doesn't stick to 
the bottom of the pan; the liquid will thicken. Fold in the chicken, diced peppers, and cilantro, 
and season well with salt and pepper.

To assemble the dish: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Get your self a large baking dish. Dip 
a tortilla into the tomatilla salsa and put it on a cutting board. Put a big scoop of the chicken 
mixture in the center, sprinkle with a little of the cheese, and roll the tortilla like a cigar 
to enclose the filling. Use a spatula to place it seam side down in the baking dish. Continue to 
fill all of the tortillas and put them in the baking dish. Pour the remaining tomatilla salsa 
over the top and sprinkle with the remaining cheese. Bake uncovered for about 30 minutes until 
bubbly and cracked on top. Serve hot with the guacamole and sour cream

Notes: This is really good and well worth the effort to make occasionally. I took a few shortcuts when
I made it. Firstly, I used Anaheim peppers instead of poblanos. No problemo. Then instead of broiling
the peppers I sauted them with the onion. I know we missed a little of the yummy char/roasty flavor but
needed the extra time to make guacamole. My enchilada filling didn't thicken like I wanted; I probably 
should have let it simmer for a bit longer but it was still really good!



http://www.roanoke.com/life/columns_and_blogs/columns/front_burner/article_96c631f6-6ce2-11e3-88c2-0019bb30f31a.html


Chewy Butterfinger Cookies

    1 and 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
    3/4 teaspoon baking soda
    1/4 teaspoon salt
    3/4 cup granulated sugar
    1/2 cup (1 stick) salted butter, softened
    1 large egg*
    8 fun sized butterfinger candy bars, chopped

Preheat oven to 375F degrees.

Combine flour, baking soda, and salt in small bowl and set aside. With an electric mixer, beat sugar 
and butter until creamy. Beat in egg until just combined.
Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in butterfinger pieces by hand. The dough will be very thick. 
Drop by slightly rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheet.
Bake for 10-12 minutes or until lightly browned. Allow to cool and enjoy!
Sally's Tip: *If dough seems too dry, mix in 1 extra egg.



FRANK'S REDHOT BUFFALO CHICKEN DIP

1 pkg. (8 oz.) PHILADELPHIA cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup FRANK'S® REDHOT® Original Cayenne Pepper Sauce or FRANK'S® REDHOT® Buffalo Wings Sauce
1/2 cup blue cheese or ranch dressing
2 cups shredded cooked chicken.
1/2 cup crumbled blue cheese or your favorite shredded cheese 

PREHEAT oven to 350°F.
COMBINE all ingredients in a 1-quart baking dish.
BAKE 20 min. or until mixture is heated through; stir. Serve with crackers or vegetables.

Slow Cooker Method: Combine ingredients as directed above. Place mixture into small slow cooker. 
Cover pot. Heat on HIGH setting for 1 1/2 hours until hot and bubbly or on LOW setting for 2 1/2 
to 3 hours. Stir.

Notes: Pretty good! For me, not the same as Buffalo wings but it's certainly a recipe inspired by
Buffalo wings. If you use fresh chicken make sure to dice it finely - large pieces of chicken are
awkward for tortilla chips. We used blue cheese all the way and did not regret it. I also didn't
have enough basic wing sauce so used a few glugs of a habanero-based sauce to round out what we 
needed. That certainly added a punch! In the crockpot be sure to stir frequently as the cheese tends
to want to stick to the bottom.


Bourbon-Glazed Chicken Drumettes

2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter
1 cup chopped onion
3 garlic cloves, peeled, thinly sliced
1 cup bourbon, divided
1 cup ketchup
1/2 cup hot pepper sauce (such as Crystal)
1/4 cup tomato paste
3 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
30 chicken drumettes (about 4 pounds)

Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat. 
Add onion and garlic; sauté until golden, about 5 minutes. 
Add 3/4 cup bourbon; boil until most of liquid is absorbed, 6 to 8 minutes. 
Whisk in 1/4 cup bourbon, ketchup, hot pepper sauce, tomato paste, and brown sugar. Bring to boil. 
Reduce heat and simmer until sauce thickens slightly, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. 
Season marinade with salt and pepper. Remove marinade from heat; cool to room temperature.
Place chicken drumettes in 15x10x2-inch glass baking dish. Pour marinade over and turn drumettes to coat. 
Cover and refrigerate overnight.

Preheat oven to 375°F. Line baking sheet with foil or parchment paper. Place cooling rack atop prepared baking sheet. 
Arrange drumettes on rack, spacing slightly apart. Spread any remaining marinade from dish over drumettes. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bake drumettes (still on cooling rack) until cooked through and brown in spots, about 45 minutes. 

Notes: Ok, they are tasty and good to eat. However, I feel they fall far short because of the overriding 
ketchupy flavor. Very light on bourbon flavor too. The recipe is probably salvagable but you'd need to reduce 
the ketchup and tomato paste by half just as a start. I think you're probably better off heading to the internet
and finding a different bourbon glaze recipe!


Smoked Salmon BLTs

4 slices thick cut bacon
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1 teaspoon lemon zest
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons chopped fresh dill leaves
8 (1/2-inch thick) slices multigrain bread
6 ounces smoked salmon
1 cup arugula, divided
2 large or 3 medium tomatoes, sliced

In a medium skillet over medium-high heat, cook the bacon until crispy.
Remove from the skillet and drain on paper towels.

In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, lemon zest, lemon juice, and fresh dill. 
Spread the lemon mayonnaise over 1 side of each slice of bread. 
Arrange the smoked salmon on 4 slices of the bread. Break the bacon in half and put on top of the smoked salmon. 
Top the bacon with 1/2 cup of arugula and arrange 2 to 3 tomato slices on top of the arugula. 
Cover with remaining slices of bread, lemon mayonnaise side down.


Shrimp Scampi 

3 T butter
3 T olive oil
3-5 cloves garlic, minced
1 pound shrimp, peeled and deveined
2 T chopped fresh parsley
juice of 1/2 lemon

Melt butter and olive oil together over low-med heat, then add garlic and sprinkle with some salt. 
Let cook for about three minutes. Do not burn the garlic. 
Add shrimp, cook for about two minutes (depending on size), then turn. 
Cook until the other side is pink and opaque. Remove from heat. 
Add parsley and lemon juice.


Cookie Dough Bark

    4 ounces or 1/2 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
    2/3 cup packed light brown sugar
    2 tbsp milk
    1 tsp vanilla extract
    1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
    1/2 tsp salt
    2/3 cup mini chocolate chips
    1 lb chocolate candy coating
    2 oz white chocolate candy coating, optional

1. In the bowl of a large stand mixer, combine the softened butter and the brown sugar. 
   Beat them together on medium speed using a paddle attachment until they're light and fluffy, 
   about 2-3 minutes.
2. With the mixer running on low, add the milk and vanilla and beat until they're incorporated.
3. Stop the mixer and add the flour and salt, and mix everything on low until the flour streaks have 
   almost disappeared. Add the miniature chocolate chips, and stir them in by hand, scraping down the 
   bottom and sides of the bowl to make sure all of the flour is incorporated. Set aside for a moment.
4. Line a baking sheet with foil. Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl, stirring 
   after every 30 seconds to prevent overheating.
5. Pour approximately half of the chocolate onto the baking sheet, and spread it into a thin, even layer, 
   less than 1/4-inch thick. It doesn't need to cover the entire pan. Place the tray in the refrigerator 
   to quickly cool down and set the chocolate.
6. Once set, gently spread the cookie dough over the chocolate so that it covers the entire surface of 
   chocolate.
7. If the remaining coating has started to set, warm it up so that it's fluid again. Pour it over the 
   cookie dough, and spread it into an even layer across the top. If desired, melt the white chocolate 
   candy coating and drizzle it all over the top while the coating is still wet. Refrigerate the tray 
   until the chocolate is completely set.
8. Cut the bark into small pieces, or break it into small irregular pieces by hand. Store Cookie Dough 
   Bark in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two weeks. 



Raleys Irish Corned Beef Stew

1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 (3 pound) corned beef brisket (with spice packet), excess fat trimmed and meat cut into 1-inch cubes
1/3 cup olive oil
1 1/2 pounds red potatoes, peeled and cubed
2 cups peeled and cubed parsnips
2 cups peeled and cubed carrots
1 extra large onion, cut into chunks
1 1/2 cups water
1 (12 fluid ounce) can or bottle Irish stout beer
1 (10.5 ounce) can beef broth
1 head cabbage, cored and coarsely chopped
1/4 cup distilled white vinegar

Place flour into a large bowl; toss corned beef cubes in flour to coat.
Heat olive oil in a large heavy pot or Dutch oven over medium heat and brown corned beef cubes on all sides, about 10 minutes.
Sprinkle the spice packet from the corned beef over the meat; mix in potatoes, parsnips, carrots, onion, water, stout beer, 
  beef broth, and any unused flour; stir to combine. Bring to a boil.
Reduce heat to low and simmer until corned beef is very tender and the stew has thickened, 2 to 2 1/2 hours.
Mix cabbage into the stew and simmer until tender, about 15 minutes. Stir in vinegar.

	
	
Irish Chicken and Dumplings

2 (10.75 ounce) cans condensed cream
of chicken soup
3 cups water
1 cup chopped celery
2 onions, quartered
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
4 skinless, boneless chicken breast halves
5 carrots, sliced
1 (10 ounce) package frozen green peas
4 potatoes, quartered
3 cups baking mix
1 1/3 cups milk
	
1. 	In large, heavy pot, combine soup, water, chicken, celery, onion, salt, poultry seasoning, and pepper. Cover and cook over low heat about 1 1/2 hours.
2. 	Add potatoes and carrots; cover and cook another 30 minutes.
3. 	Remove chicken from pot, shred it, and return to pot. Add peas and cook only 5 minutes longer.
4. 	Add dumplings. To make dumplings: Mix baking mix and milk until a soft dough forms. Drop by tablespoonfuls onto BOILING stew. 
    Simmer covered for 10 minutes, then uncover and simmer an additional 10 minutes.

Notes: Possibly a bit bland according to some reviews. I think maybe you could use boneless skinless thighs or skinned whole 
       pieces of chicken for better flavor. I would also like to make homemade condensed cream of chicken soup instead of using
	   the super-processed canned stuff. I bet some leeks and turnips would be good in this. I also bet if you sauted the aromatics
	   before adding the soup and broth that would improve the flavor too!

	   
Homemade Condensed Cream of Chicken Soup

    1 1/2 cups chicken broth
    1 1/2 cups milk or milk alternative, divided
    1/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning
    1/4 teaspoon onion powder
    1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
    1/8 teaspoon black pepper
    1/4 teaspoon salt
    1/4 teaspoon dried parsley
    Dash paprika
    5 tablespoons corn starch
    Shredded chicken as desired

In a medium saucepan, bring to boil chicken broth, 1/2 cup milk, poultry seasoning, onion powder, garlic powder, 
  salt and pepper, parsley, and paprika stirring occasionally.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the remaining 1 cup milk and cornstarch until smooth and watery. 
Slowly add the cornstarch mix to the saucepan stirring constantly. 
Return mixture to a boil and continue stirring until the soup thickens.
Remove from stove and cool. Add desired amount of shredded chicken. 
  (I use less than half of a chicken breast. Or, you can eliminate the chicken. The base is yummy even without the chicken.) 
Use as an ingredient in your signature recipes.


Dublin Coddle - Irish Sausage, Bacon, Onion and Potato Hotpot

2 kg potatoes
2 large onions, peeled and sliced thickly
450 g good quality pork sausages
450 g bacon, piece thick cut
500 ml water
1 ham stock cube or 1 beef or 1 chicken stock cube, if ham stock isn't available
3 -4 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped
salt ( to season)
coarse-ground pepper ( to season)

Peel the potatoes. Cut large ones into three or four pieces: leave smaller ones whole. 
Finely chop the parsley. Boil the water and in it dissolve the bouillon cube.
Grill or broil the sausages and bacon long enough to colour them. Be careful not to dry them out! Drain briefly on paper towels. 
When drained, chop the bacon into one-inch pieces. If you like, chop the sausages into large pieces as well. 
  (Some people prefer to leave them whole.).
Preheat the oven to 300F / 150°C 
In a large flameproof heavy pot with a tight lid, start layering the ingredients: onions, bacon, sausages or sausage pieces, potatoes. 
Season each layer liberally with fresh-ground pepper and the chopped fresh parsley. Continue until the ingredients are used up. 
Pour the bouillon mixture over the top. On the stove, bring the liquid to a boil. Immediately turn the heat down and cover the pot. 
  (You may like to additionally put a layer of foil underneath the pot lid to help seal it.).
Put the covered pot in the oven and cook for at least three hours. (Four or five hours won't hurt it.) 
At the two-hour point, check the pot and add more water if necessary. There should be about an inch of liquid at the bottom of the pot at all times.
To Serve. Guinness, bottled or draft, goes extremely well with this dish (indeed, adding a little to the pot 
  toward the end of the process wouldn't hurt anything). Another good accompaniment is fresh soda bread, used to mop up the gravy!
	
	
	
Classic English Toad-in-the-Hole


    1 1/2 cup of all purpose flour
    1 scant teaspoon Kosher salt
    Pinch of freshly ground black pepper
    3 eggs, beaten
    1 1/2 cup milk
    2 Tbsp melted butter
    1 Tbsp vegetable oil
    1 lb of bangers (an English sausage made with pork and breadcrumbs), or good quality pork or beef sausage links (in casings)

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour with the salt and a pinch of pepper. Make a well in the center of the flour. 
Pour in the eggs, milk, and melted butter into the well and whisk into the flour until smooth. Cover and let stand 30 minutes.
Coat the bottom and sides of an 8x12 or 9x9 casserole dish with vegetable oil. Place a rack in the bottom third of the oven. 
Put the empty dish on the rack. Preheat the oven with the dish in it to 425°F.
While the oven is coming to temperature, heat a tablespoon of vegetable oil in a skillet on medium high. 
Add the sausages and brown them on at least a couple sides.
When the sausages have browned, and the dish in the oven hot, pull the oven rack out a bit, put the sausages in the casserole 
dish and pour the batter over the sausages. 
Cook for about 20-30 minutes or until the batter is risen and golden. 


Baked Falafel

    3 to 4 tablespoons olive oil
    1 cup dried chickpeas, rinsed, picked over and soaked for at least one hour and up to overnight
    1/3 cup chopped red onion (about 1/4th of a medium red onion, chopped)
    1/2 cup fresh parsley leaves
    1/2 cup fresh cilantro leaves
    3 garlic cloves, minced
    1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
    1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon
    1 teaspoon ground sea salt or kosher salt
    1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
	
Preheat oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit. 
In a food processor, combine the soaked and drained chickpeas, red onion, parsley, cilantro, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 
garlic, cumin, cinnamon, salt and pepper. Process until smooth, about 1 minute.
Using your hands, scoop out about 2 tablespoons of the mixture at a time. Shape the falafel into small patties, 
  about 2 inches wide and 1/2 inch thick. 
Place each falafel on oiled skillet or pan.
Bake for 13 minutes, then remove the falafel from the oven and carefully flip each one. 
Return the pans to the oven for another 13 to 15 minutes, until the falafels are lightly browned on both sides.

Notes: These are awesome! Very flavorful. Don't skimp on the fresh herbs. The patties brown nicely in the oven. 
Starting with dried chick peas is what gives the patties their body, which is important for the oven frying process. 
I made a double batch using a pound of dried chick peas, which was slightly more than 2 cups. I doubled everything 
else and tossed in a bit more of the herbs to even it out. The patties reheat very nicely in the microwave.



Crockpot General Tso's Chicken

2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken breasts (cut into 1" pieces) 
1 cup cornstarch, divided 
1 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1/2 cup sugar 
1/2 cup low sodium soy sauce 
1/2 cup unsweetened pineapple juice 
1/3 cup vinegar (white distilled or apple cider) 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1/4 teaspoon dried ginger 
Green onions, chopped, to top Rice and broccoli, to serve

Combine 3/4 cups cornstarch, the salt, and the pepper in a shallow dish. 
Dip the chicken pieces in the cornstarch mixture to coat, shake off excess, and set aside. 
Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. 
Brown the chicken pieces. It should take less than 2 minutes per side. Remove the chicken and set aside. 
In the slow cooker, combine the sugar, soy sauce, pineapple juice, vinegar, garlic, ginger, and cayenne. 
Stir to mix well. Add the chicken to the crock pot and cook on low for 4 hours. 
Check 20 minutes before serving and make sure your sauce is thick enough. If not, take the remaining 1/4 
  cup of cornstarch and mix it with ¼ cup cold water until a slurry forms. Then, gently mix it into the 
  chicken and sauce, being careful not to scrape the cornstarch coating off of the chicken. 
Cook for another 20 minutes, and then serve over broccoli and rice. Top with chopped green onion.



Kung Pao Shrimp

Shrimp:
1 tablespoon Shaoxing (Chinese rice wine), dry sherry, or sake
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 pound peeled and deveined medium shrimp

Sauce:
1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar or balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon low-sodium soy sauce
3/4 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon dark sesame oil

Remaining ingredients:
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 1/3 cups thinly sliced green bell pepper strips (about 1 large) $
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh ginger
3 to 4 small dried hot red chiles, broken in half and seeded
1/4 cup chopped unsalted, dry-roasted peanuts
3 cups hot cooked short-grain rice

1. To prepare shrimp, combine first 4 ingredients; cover and chill 10 minutes.
2. To prepare sauce, combine sugar and next 5 ingredients (through sesame oil).
3. Heat a 14-inch wok over high heat. Add canola oil to wok, swirling to coat. 
   Add bell pepper, garlic, ginger, and chiles to wok; stir-fry 1 minute or just 
   until chiles begin to lightly brown (do not burn). Add shrimp mixture to wok; 
   stir-fry 2 minutes or until shrimp are done. Stir sauce; add sauce to wok. 
   Stir-fry 30 seconds or until sauce thickens. 
   Sprinkle with chopped peanuts. Serve over rice.

Notes: Very nice! I made kung pao scallops, which were very good. I added a sliced
onion with the other veggies and that worked well with everything too. Goes together
easily; a great stir fry recipe.


CUMIN VINAIGRETTE
2 T. red-wine vinegar
1 tsp. ground cumin
1 tsp. Dijon mustard
1 tsp. honey (I used more like 1 1/2 tsp. honey)
salt and pepper, to taste
1/2 c. extra-virgin olive oil (I used 1/4 c. EVO and 1/4 c. regular olive oil

Whisk everything together except for the olive oil. 
Then, whisking constantly, drizzle in the olive oil until the dressing thickens slightly. 
Set aside for a short time for flavors to meld.



Turkey Sriracha Meatballs

MEATBALLS
    19 oz. package ground turkey
    1 large egg
    1/2 cup plain breadcrumbs
    2 inches fresh ginger
    1/2 tsp soy sauce
    1 bunch green onions (divided)
    Freshly cracked black pepper

SRIRACHA GLAZE
    2 Tbsp soy sauce
    1 Tbsp rice vinegar
    1/4 cup brown sugar
    2 Tbsp sriracha hot sauce
    1/2 cup water (divided)
    2 Tbsp cornstarch

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Add the ground turkey, egg, bread crumbs, soy sauce, 
  and some freshly ground pepper to a large bowl. Peel the ginger with a vegetable peeler 
  or by scraping the skin off with the side of a spoon. Use a small holed cheese grater 
  to grate about two inches of the ginger straight into the bowl. Thinly slice 2-3 of the 
  green onions and add to the bowl (save the rest for later).
Mix the ingredients in the bowl thoroughly. Shape the meat mixture into meatballs about the 
  size of pingpong balls. You should get 25-30 meatballs, depending on the size. Arrange the 
  meatballs on a baking sheet covered in foil and bake in the preheated oven for 25 minutes.
While the meatballs are baking, make the sriracha glaze. In a small pot combine the soy sauce, 
  rice vinegar, brown sugar, sriracha and ¼ cup of the water. Heat and stir the mixture over 
  medium heat until the brown sugar is dissolved. In a small bowl, stir together the remaining 
  1/4 cup of water with the cornstarch. Pour the cornstarch slurry into the pot with the glaze. 
  Stir to combine. Allow the mixture to come up to a simmer, at which point the glaze will 
  thicken and become glossy.
After the meatballs are finished baking, transfer them to a large bowl and pour the glaze over 
  top. Carefully toss the meatballs to coat in the glaze. Serve hot topped with the remaining 
  sliced green onions.

  
Americas Test Kitchen Buffalo Sauce

1/2 cup Franks Red Hot 
4 Tablespoons butter 
2 Tablespoons Crystal (or any similar hot sauce) 
2 Teaspoons Apple Cider Vinegar 
1 Tablespoon Brown Sugar

Combine, heat through until brown sugar dissolves, tosw with wings.
Enough for roughly 12 wings or so depending on the size.

Notes: Good - enough butter to cling to your chicken pieces but not so much as to give it a 
greasy mouthfeel. I used some Bufalo hot sauce instead of Crystal (didn't have any Crystal) and
it was OK but I'll be using something else next time (Sriracha, Tapatio, etc.).



Restaurant Style Salsa

    1 can (28 Ounce) Whole Tomatoes With Juice
    2 cans (10 Ounce) Rotel (diced Tomatoes And Green Chilies)
    1/4 cup Chopped Onion
    1 clove Garlic, Minced
    1 whole Jalapeno, Quartered And Sliced Thin
    1/4 teaspoon Sugar
    1/4 teaspoon Salt
    1/4 teaspoon Ground Cumin
    1/2 cup Cilantro (more To Taste!)
    1/2 whole Lime Juice

Note: this is a very large batch. Recommend using a 12-cup food processor, or you can process the 
ingredients in batches and then mix everything together in a large mixing bowl.

Combine whole tomatoes, Rotel, onion, jalapeno, garlic, sugar, salt, cumin, lime juice, and cilantro 
in a blender or food processor. Pulse until you get the salsa to the consistency you'd like---I do 
about 10 to 15 pulses. Test seasonings with a tortilla chip and adjust as needed.

Refrigerate salsa for at least an hour. Serve with tortilla chips or cheese nachos.


Giant Skillet Cookie

1 stick butter 
1 egg 
1/2 cup sugar 
1/2 cup dark brown sugar 
1 tsp vanilla 
1 1/2 cups flour 
1/4 tsp kosher salt 
1/2 tsp baking soda 
12 oz pack chocolate morsels

No. 8 Iron Skillet 
Parchment Paper

Cream dark brown sugar, sugar, and softened butter together.
Mix in egg and vanilla.
Mix in baking soda, salt, and flour.
Mix in chocolate morsels.
Cut a circle of parchment paper to fit the bottom of the pan. Spread cookie dough evenly in pan. 
Cook at 350 degF for 20 min or until golden brown on top.


Pizza Quinoa Casserole

    1 C uncooked quinoa cooked in 2 C water or about 3½ C cooked quinoa
    1 6oz can tomato paste
    3-4 large cloves garlic, finely minced, grated or pressed
    1/2 small onion, finely chopped
    2 tbsp water
    2 tbsp good quality extra virgin olive oil
    1 tsp oregano
    1/2 tsp fennel seed
    1 tsp marjoram
    1 tsp basil
    1 tbsp dried parsley
    1/4 tsp sugar
    1/2 tsp salt
    dash black pepper
    1/2 C mozzarella cheese, to top(optional)

Rinse quinoa well and combine with water in a small pot over high heat. 
Bring to a boil, cover and turn down to low and simmer for 15 minutes until all the liquid is absorbed, 
  the quinoa is tender and completely cooked. 
Remove from the heat and leave covered in the pot for 5 minutes while assembling other ingredients.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease 4 – 1 cup ramekins, 2 – 2 cup dishes or a larger casserole dish.
In a small bowl, combine the tomato paste with the garlic and onion, water and olive oil. Mix well. 
Add all the seasonings including the nutritional yeast if using. Mix well again before adding the quinoa. 
Once the mixture is completely mixed, taste for seasonings and add more salt as needed. 
Divide evenly among the dishes for baking, sprinkle with cheese if desired and place in the oven. 
Bake 30-35 minutes until the cheese is golden and bubbly or until the quinoa on top is golden and crispy. 
If desired, sprinkle with fresh basil or parsley and serve.

Notes: This is a very good side dish. I'm tempted to add some small chunks of mozarella to the mix rather
than just sprinkle it on the top.


Pasteli (Greek sesame stick candy)

1 cup honey
1 cup sesame seeds
1/2 teaspoon salt

In a large skillet over low heat, lightly toast the sesame seeds until fragrant (about 2 - 3 minutes).
Heat the honey and salt in a saucepan over low heat. When it has thickened (after about 5 minutes), stir 
  in the sesame seeds and bring the the mixture to boil.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and spray with cooking spray. Pour the hot mixture onto the parchment 
  and spread it out to a 1/4 inch thickness. Be careful, as it will be very hot.
Leave the pasteli out on the baking parchment until it comes to room temperature. Once cool, use a sharp knife 
  to cut it into bite size pieces.
Store in an airtight container, with parchment paper in between each layer of candy. Keep in a cool, dry place.
Note: Adding some sugar (up to about 1/4 cup) during the cooking process will create a harder, crisper candy. 
  Without the added sugar, the candy stays on the chewier side. This basic pasteli recipe is simple and delicious 
  on its own, but you can add an extra layor of flavor by adding cinnamon, lemon or orange zest, or even ginger.
User note (from website): A way to help keep the pieces from being too sticky on the outside is to put a layer of 
  toasted sesame seed on the parchment paper then pouring the mixture on top it; then sprinkling another layer of 
  seeds on top. Basically coating the pasteli in a layer of unsugared sesame seeds.
  

  
Cheese Sauce for Cheese Fries and Nachos (Serious Eats)

8 ounces extra sharp cheddar cheese (or a mix of cheddar and pepper Jack—see note), grated on large holes of a box grater
1 tablespoon corn starch
1 (12-ounce) can evaporated milk
2 teaspoons Franks Red Hot or other hot sauce


Add cheese and cornstarch to large bowl. Toss to combine. Transfer to medium saucepan. Add 1 cup evaporated milk and 
hot sauce. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly with whisk until melted, bubbly, and thickened (about 5 minutes). 
Mixture will look thin and grainy at first but will thicken and come together after heating. Thin to desired 
consistency with additional evaporated milk. Serve immediately with fries, tortilla chips, burgers, or hot dogs.


Seven Layer Taco Dip
http://allrecipes.com/recipe/seven-layer-taco-dip/



3 Bean Salad
    1/2 lb. frozen cut green beans
    1/2 lb. frozen purple hull or field peas
    1 (15 oz. can) kidney beans
    1/2 small Vidalia onion
    1/4 bunch fresh parsley
    3 Tbsp olive oil
    1 1/2 Tbsp red wine vinegar
    1/4 tsp garlic powder
    3/4 tsp salt
    freshly cracked pepper

Bring a 2 quart sauce pot of water to a rolling boil over high heat. Add the frozen peas. 
Allow the pot to return to a boil then reduce the heat to medium-low and allow the peas to 
simmer for 45 minutes. Either allow the frozen green beans to thaw during this time, or for 
a softer green bean, add the green beans to the boiling water with the peas for the last 3 
minutes of cooking. Drain the peas in a colander and allow them to cool slightly.
Meanwhile, finely dice the onion and roughly chop the parsley. Add both to a large bowl. 
Briefly rinse the kidney beans under cool water, allow the excess water to drain away, 
and then add them to the bowl with the onion and parsley.
To make the dressing, stir together the olive oil, red wine vinegar, garlic powder, salt, 
and a generous amount of freshly cracked pepper in a small bowl.
Once the peas have been boiled and cooled, add the peas and green beans to the bowl with 
the rest of the ingredients. Pour the dressing over top, and stir until everything is well 
combined. Serve immediately or refrigerate until ready to eat.


Tuna & White Bean Salad

    1 (15 oz.) can white beans
    1 (5 oz.) can chunk light tuna in water
    2 whole green onions
    1 Tbsp lemon juice
    1 Tbsp olive oil
    to taste salt & pepper

Pour the can of beans into a colander and rinse with cool water. Allow the excess water to drain off. 
Drain the can of tuna. Combine the drained beans and tuna in a bowl. Thinly slice the green onions 
and add to the bowl as well.
Add the olive oil and lemon juice to the bowl, along with a light sprinkle of salt and freshly ground 
black pepper. Stir to combine.
Taste the mixture and add salt, pepper, or lemon juice to your liking.


Cream of Brie Soup

1/4 cup butter
1 small onion, minced
3 stalks celery, chopped
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
4 cups chicken stock
1/2 pound Brie cheese with the rind, cubed
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon green bell pepper, cut into very fine matchsticks
1 tablespoon red bell pepper, cut into very fine matchsticks

Melt the butter in a large saucepan over medium heat; cook the onions and celery until the onions are translucent, 
about 5 minutes. 
Stir in the flour, and cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Gradually whisk in the chicken stock. 
Simmer until the celery is tender, about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Stir in the Brie cheese, and allow to melt for about 5 minutes.
Smooth with immersion blender.
Heat the soup to almost simmering over medium-low heat. Pour in the cream. 
To serve, garnish with red and green pepper strips.

Notes: Delicious! I'm looking forward to making this again.


The Best Rolled Sugar Cookies

1 1/2 cups butter, softened
2 cups white sugar
4 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt

1. 	In a large bowl, cream together butter and sugar until smooth. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Stir in the flour, 
    baking powder, and salt. Cover, and chill dough for at least one hour (or overnight).
2. 	Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Roll out dough on floured surface 1/4 to 1/2 inch thick. 
    Cut into shapes with any cookie cutter. Place cookies 1 inch apart on ungreased cookie sheets.
3. 	Bake 6 to 8 minutes in preheated oven. Cool completely.


Tyler Florence Paella
http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/tyler-florence/paella-with-seafood-chicken-and-chorizo-recipe.html


Smoked Sausage with Rice

12 oz smoked sausage (or kielbasa)
1 large onion, sliced
1 large green pepper, sliced
1 cup celery cut into 1" pieces
14 oz can tomatoes
1 cup beef broth
8 oz can sliced pineapple (or chunks),
  drained, liquid reserved
1/4 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp pepper
1 T brown sugar
2 T cornstarch

Cook sausage; either in water or lightly saute slices. Add vegetables and cook till veggies are tender-crisp.
Add canned tomato, broth, pineapple pieces and seasonings. Cover and simmer for 5 minutes.
Blend cornstarch with reserved pineapple juice. Pour into sausage + veggies. Simmer for several minutes until
broth slightly thickens. Serve over rice.

Notes: An old recipe Mom started making when I was a kid. Always a favorite to help switch meals up a little,
plus it's very budget friendly.


Stroganoff Burger

(uses egg noodle cakes as buns)
  
http://www.thefoodinmybeard.com/recipe/stroganoff-burger/

    1 Pound Ground Beef
    8 Ounces Egg Noodles (half a package)
    2 Eggs
    1 Large Onion
    4 Ounces Mushrooms
    1/4 Cup Cream
    1/2 Cup Sour Cream
	
Cook the egg noodles in boiling water until tender. Strain and allow to cool for 3 minutes. 
Whisk in the eggs. Pour into burger bun sized containers that are well greased. Makes 6 buns. 
(for 3 burgers) Weight down so that it is more tight and firm and easy to hold in the end. 
Allow to sit for an hour in the fridge.
    
Slice the onion and cook in buter until browned all around. 20 minutes. Add the mushrooms and 
cook 5 minutes. Add the cream and stir to coat. Remove from heat. Add the sour cream and stir to 
combine.

Form the burger patties to be the same size as the buns but slightly wider. Grill or cook the 
burgers to medium. Meanwhile also cook the pasta buns to brown on both sides and firm up.

Build your burgers using the buns and the burger and top with the mushroom cream sauce.



Cheeseburger Rice

1 pound ground beef
1 med onion, chopped
2 cups water
2/3 cup catsup
2 T prepared mustard
1/2 tsp salt
dash of pepper
2 cups minute rice
4 oz sliced cheese

Brown meat with onion, drain.
Stir in water, catsup, mustard, salt + pepper.
Stir in rice, cover and let stand 5 minutes.
Fluff with fork, add cheese, let stand until melted.

Notes: I used to make this as a bachelor. It's easy like Hamburger Helper but
without having to buy the box. Most of this stuff you generally have around anyway
plus you avoid some of the unnecessary preservatives and junk in the commercial Helper.

More notes: I made it with regular cooked rice. I skipped the water and just eyeballed the
ketchup and mustard. It turned out pretty well. Nathaniel didn't like the onions in it so
next time I'll make it without them. One nice touch was that we had it with sliced summer 
tomatoes. Next time I may top individual servings with some shredded lettuce, sliced
onion and diced tomato for more cheeseburger flavor.


Crockpot Kung Pao Chicken

INGREDIENTS
2 lbs boneless, skinless chicken breast, cut into 1" cubes
Salt and pepper
2 tablespoons oil
1/2 cup low sodium chicken broth
1/3 cup low sodium soy sauce
1/3 cup balsamic vinegar or Chinese black vinegar
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce
6-10 dried red chili peppers, split and seeds removed (adjust according to desired heat level)
1 orange bell pepper, sliced
1/2 medium white onion, sliced
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon fresh ginger, minced or grated
2 tablespoons cornstarch
Peanuts or cashews, to top
Green onion, to garnish
Rice, to serve

DIRECTIONS
Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat (or, if you have a multicooker you can just do it right in the 
crock pot, which is awesome). Season the chicken breast with salt and pepper and saute until browned on all 
sides, about 4 minutes. 
Add the chicken to the crock pot.
Add in the chicken broth, soy sauce, balsamic vinegar, sugar, and hoisin sauce. Give the pot a light stir. 
Then, add in the bell pepper, onion, garlic, and ginger, and stir once more.
Cover and cook on low heat for 4 hours.
About 30 minutes before you've finished cooking (at the 3 hour and 30 minute mark), combine equal parts water
and cornstarch (about 2 tablespoons of each) in a small bowl, whisking together until smooth. Add the slurry 
to the crock pot and mix well. Continue to cook for another 30 minutes, or until sauce has thickened.
While you wait for the sauce to thicken, slice your green onions in half, longways. Keep slicing until you 
have thin strips. Place the green onions in a bowl of ice water and let sit. This will make them curl up. 
Serve the Crock Pot Kung Pao Chicken over rice with peanuts or cashews on top and the curled green onion to 
garnish. 


Slow Cooker Chocolate Cake

for the cake:
1 cup flour
2 tablespoons cocoa powder
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 tablespoon vanilla
1/2 cup Nutella (or peanut butter, or cookie butter)
1/2 cup chocolate chips (any kind would work great)

for the topping:
3 tablespoons cocoa powder
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups boiling water

to serve:
1 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1-2 tablespoons Nutella
1-2 tablespoons chopped hazelnuts

Spray a slow cooker with cooking spray. To make the cake, whisk together the flour, cocoa powder, sugar, 
baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. 
Whisk together the milk, oil, and vanilla, and then add to the dry ingredients, mixing well. 
Fold in the Nutella and chocolate chips. Spread the mixture in the bottom of the slow cooker.

To make the topping, add the cocoa powder and sugar to a small bowl, then pour the boiling water over the top. 
Stir until dissolved, then pour the mixture over the top of the cake batter in the slow cooker. Do not stir! 
Put the lid on the slow cooker and cook on high for two hours, or until the top layer has puffed up and is set.

To serve, whip the cream until light and fluffy, then add the powdered sugar and whip until combined. 
Warm the Nutella in the microwave on 50% power until melted. Dollop each piece of cake with some freshly whipped 
cream, then drizzle with warm Nutella. Top with chopped hazelnuts and enjoy!


Glazed Nuts

1 1/2 cups whole almonds, blanched (or cashews, peanuts, pecan halves, etc.)
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons butter or 2 teaspoons margarine

In a heavy 8 inch skillet combine nuts, sugar and butter.
Cook over med heat, stirring constantly until sugar is melted and golden in color and nuts are toasted (about 7 minutes).
Spread nuts on a butter cookie sheet or aluminum foil, separating nuts.
Sprinkle lightly with salt.


Russian Tea Cakes

1 cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup chopped walnuts
1/3 cup confectioners' sugar for decoration

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
In a medium bowl, cream butter and vanilla until smooth. 
Combine the 6 tablespoons confectioners' sugar and flour; stir into the butter mixture until just blended. 
Mix in the chopped walnuts. Roll dough into 1 inch balls, and place them 2 inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet.
Bake for 12 minutes in the preheated oven. 
When cool, roll in remaining confectioners' sugar.

Notes: Pretty good. The flavor seems to improve after a couple of days.


Chicken Dijon

Season chicken, sear in hot olive oil. When done, throw some minced shallots down into the oil and saute for a moment, 
then deglaze with brandy. 
Add 3 parts sour cream to 2 parts Dijon mustard, heat through. 
Plate chicken and pour sauce over.


Mediterranean Crescent Ring

http://ericasrecipes.com/2014/10/mediterranean-crescent-ring/

Notes: Goes together easily and is very good!


Kofta Kebabs

4 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pound ground lamb
3 tablespoons grated onion
3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
1 tablespoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
28 bamboo skewers, soaked in water for 30 minutes

1. 	Mash the garlic into a paste with the salt using a mortar and pestle or the flat side of a chef's knife on your 
    cutting board. Mix the garlic into the lamb along with the onion, parsley, coriander, cumin, cinnamon, allspice, 
	cayenne pepper, ginger, and pepper in a mixing bowl until well blended. Form the mixture into 28 balls. 
	Form each ball around the tip of a skewer, flattening into a 2 inch oval; repeat with the remaining skewers. 
	Place the kebabs onto a baking sheet, cover, and refrigerate at least 30 minutes, or up to 12 hours.
2. 	Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat, and lightly oil grate.
3. 	Cook the skewers on the preheated grill, turning occasionally, until the lamb has cooked to your desired degree 
    of doneness, about 6 minutes for medium.
	
Notes: Very yummy. Grating onion might be too much trouble; finely mincing it seems to be ok too.



Tom Kha Gai (Thai soup)

100g sliced chicken
1 cup water
1 cup coconut milk a bit more coconut milk than water
1/4 cup sliced galangal (Thai ginger)
1 stalk lemongrass, sliced into 3cm long pieces
1/4 cup sliced onion
1/4 cup sliced tomatoes
1/2 cup sliced wood ear mushrooms
1-5 crushed hot chilies (fresh chilies, ground to paste)
2-3 kaffir lime leaves
1 stem of chopped spring onion
5 coriander leaves
2 tsp. lime juice
1 tbsp fish sauce or soy sauce
1/2 tsp of sugar Note: add more sugar to this
pinch of salt

Chicken can be replaced by tofu or shrimp

Put water and coconut milk in pot, heat until boiling. Add galangal, lemongrass, onion, cook until fragrant. 
Add chicken, tomatoes, chiles and mushrooms, continue boiling until cooked. Season with fish sauce, sugar, 
and salt. Finally add lime juice, coriander, lime leaves and spring onions. Serve with rice.



Slow Cooker Thai Chicken Soup

2 tablespoons red curry paste
2 12 ounce cans of coconut milk
2 cups chicken stock
2 tablespoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons brown sugar
2 tablespoons peanut butter
1 1/2 pounds chicken breasts, cut into 1½ inch pieces
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced into ¼ inch slices
1 onion, thinly sliced
1 heaping tablespoon fresh ginger, minced
1 cup frozen peas, thawed
1 tablespoon lime juice
cilantro for garnish
cooked white rice

Mix the curry paste, coconut milk, chicken stock, fish sauce, brown sugar 
  and peanut butter in a 4-1/2 to 6-quart slow-cooker bowl. 
Place the chicken breast, red bell pepper, onion and ginger in the slow cooker, 
  cover and cook on high for 4 hours.
Add in the peas and cook for ½ hour longer. 
Stir in lime juice and serve with cilantro and white rice.



Buffalo Chicken Meatballs

http://hostthetoast.com/buffalo-chicken-meatballs/

1 lb ground chicken or turkey
1/2 cup Frank's Red Hot buffalo sauce
1 egg
1 celery stalk, minced
1 cup breadcrumbs
1/2 oz (1/2 a packet) of Hidden Valley dry ranch mix
1 teaspoon salt

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Spray a 8x12 or 9x13 baking dish with nonstick spray and set aside.
In a large bowl combine all of the ingredients. Use your hands to mush it all together and ensure that it's 
  well-mixed.
Roll the mixture into small balls and place them on the baking sheet. You should wind up with 16-24 small 
  meatballs.
Bake the meatballs for 20 minutes, or until a meat thermometer reads 165 degrees F. You won't be able to tell 
  by the color of the meatballs.
Serve with additional buffalo sauce, ranch dip, or blue cheese!



Authentic Hungarian Goulash

2 onions, chopped into 1/2 inch pieces
4 tbsp paprika
1 tbsp ground caraway
2 lb beef stew meat, cut into 1 inch cubes
6 sweet peppers, cut into 1 inch pieces
1/3 cup flour
2 tsp salt, or to taste
2 tbsp oil
4 cups chicken broth
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 parsnip, diced
2 carrots, cut into 1/2 inch pieces

1. In a heavy pot, heat 1 tbsp of oil over medium heat.
2. Add onions; simmer until onions turn soft and golden. Add paprika, caraway and garlic; cook 1-2 minutes, stirring continuously.
3. Season beef with 1 tsp salt and toss in flour until meat is lightly coated.
4. Add remaining oil to pot. Add beef to pot and stir occasionally, until meat starts to brown on all sides.
5. Add peppers.
6. Add chicken brother and cover. Let the stew simmer on low heat 1-2 hours, or until meat is tender.
7. Add potatoes, carrots and parsnip and let simmer for another 30 minutes.
8. Top with sour cream and serve!



Bananadoodles (Banana Snickerdoodles)

2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar, plus 1/4 cup sugar (separated)
1 tablespoon molasses
2 large bananas (the riper the better)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon

1. Preheat oven to 350°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or lightly grease.
2. In a bowl, mash the bananas with a whisk.
3. In another bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder and salt. Set aside.
4. Using a mixer or another bowl, beat the oil, 1 1/3 cups sugar and molasses together until light, about 1 1/2 minutes.
5. Add the bananas into the oil mixture, beating well. Mix the vanilla extract in and continue to beat for an additional 30 seconds.
6. Slowly add the flour mixture and beat just until blended.
7. Refrigerate dough for at least 45 minutes (it will keep up to a week in the fridge).
8. In a small bowl, mix the 1/4 cup sugar and the cinnamon to make the topping.
9. Shape the cookies into 1-inch balls (about 1 tablespoon of dough).
10. Roll each ball into the cinnamon-sugar mixture to coat completely, and then place them onto the baking sheets about 2 inches apart.
11. Flatten each cookie into a thick disk.
12. Bake the cookies for 10-14 minutes until tops are crinkly and they are puffed. They should be slightly browned around the edges. Transfer to a wire rack and cool completely.



White Chocolate Banana Brownies

    1/4 cup unsalted butter
    4 oz white chocolate
    1/4 teaspoon of salt
    1 egg
    120 grams of flour
    2 medium ripe bananas
    1/2 cup white sugar
    1 tsp vanilla extract
	
Melt butter and chocolate together in microwave, double boiler or using other method.
In a smaller mixing bowl, mash the bananas using a wooden spoon or potato masher.
Add the sugar to the melted butter and chocolate, stirring thoroughly.
Add the mashed bananas to the butter/sugar/chocolate mixture.
Stir in the egg, and the salt, and the vanilla extract. Finally, add the flour and mix completely.
Move this mixture to an 8 inch square pan that you have pre-lubed with baking spray.
Park it in your 350 degree oven for 15-20 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out (mostly) clean.
Cool for 15 minutes.


Chicken Soup with Cabbage and Apple

2 teaspoons caraway seeds
1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 1/2 cups chopped onion
1/2 cup chopped carrot
1/2 cup chopped celery
3 garlic cloves, minced
4 ounces chicken apple sausage, sliced (other mildly flavored sausage fine)
  Can also be replaced by mushroom if desired.
5 cups Chicken Stock (low sodium preferred)
8 ounces chopped Yukon gold potato
3 cups thinly sliced green cabbage
2 cups shredded cooked chicken breast (about 8 ounces)
2 cups sliced Granny Smith apples (peel and dice later, to avoid browning)
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

Cook chicken (baking is easiest but use whichever method you prefer). Shred.
Toast caraway and fennel seeds in pan over med heat. Cool briefly and grind.
Clean cabbage, peel off damaged outer leaves; core. Slice 3 cups for soup.
Get all ingredients ready for addition to soup (mise en place).
Over medium heat add 1 T oil to pan; saute aromatics (onion, carrot, celery and garlic). 
  Cook 5-6 minutes.
Add sausage or mushroom and saute for another minute. Sprinkle spices over mixture.
Add stock and potatoes; bring to simmer for 10 minutes.
Add the green cabbage, shredded chicken, sliced or diced apples, vinegar, salt and pepper.
  Stir well, and allow to cook for three minutes.
  

Calabacitas Soup

    Yellow Squash - 2 medium, chopped
    Zucchini - 2 medium, chopped
    Onion - 1 small, diced
    Garlic - 2-3 cloves, diced
    Tomatoes - 1 can of diced. It is definitely better with fresh tomatoes, but I had this in the pantry.
    Bell pepper - 1 chopped
    Corn - 2 cups frozen, not pictured
    Carrot - 1 chopped thin, or diced
    Olives - sliced, around 7-8 oz.
    Black beans - 1 can drained and rinsed, 15 oz
    Sausage - I used 1/2 of a Polish Kielbasa.
    Chipotle peppers - in adobo sauce. Vary amount depending on how spicy you like it.
    Dried oregano - 1/2 teaspoon
    Cumin - 1/2 teaspoon
    Chicken broth - I recommend the low sodium kind, 32 oz.
    Cheese sauce - 2 cans of Cambells Chedder Cheese, 10.25 oz
	
    Cilantro
    Avacado
    Cotija cheese
    Lime
	
Chop the vegetables into pleasing thicknesses. The squash and zucchini are the main players so go with a med/slightly
larger dice on those. Do not leave carrot too thick. Prep the chipotles but be careful of the amount of heat being
added to the soup!
Add everything to your crock pot. Hold the cilantro, avocado, cojita cheese, and the lime. That is for the finished soup. 
Give the pot a good stir, set it on low, and go find something to do for the next 6 hours. Total prep time for me was around 
20 minutes.
When serving, I like to use a slotted spoon to dish out the vegetable mixture, then use a ladle to add the broth. 
Garnish with fresh chopped cilantro, cojita cheese, and a couple of avacado slices. A squeeze of lime juice freshens the dish up.

Notes: Very good - lots of options for customizing. Next time I think I'm going to cut back to one of the cheddar cheese
soups. I'm not a big fan of that style of cheese and though it helps thicken the soup I'd prefer going another route and stirring
real cheese into individual servings. I used one chipotle and it was pleasantly spicy to my tastes; close to Kate's max.



Potatoes Au Gratin

http://allrecipes.com/recipe/creamy-au-gratin-potatoes/

4 russet potatoes, sliced into 1/4 inch slices
1 onion, sliced into rings
salt and pepper to taste
3 tablespoons butter
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups milk
1 1/2 cups shredded Cheddar cheese

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Butter a 1 quart casserole dish.
Layer 1/2 of the potatoes into bottom of the prepared casserole dish. Top with the onion slices, and add the remaining potatoes. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
In a medium-size saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Mix in the flour and salt, and stir constantly with a whisk for one minute. 
Stir in milk. Cook until mixture has thickened. Stir in cheese all at once, and continue stirring until melted, about 30 to 60 seconds. 
Pour cheese over the potatoes, and cover the dish with aluminum foil.
Bake 1 1/2 hours in the preheated oven.

Notes: Really good. I ended up using half and half instead of milk and it made for an extremely thick and creamy bechemel.
I also sliced up a couple of jalapenos and added them to the onion layers. It took nearly 2 hours to finish but it was very
good.



http://www.wholefoodsmarket.com/recipe/simple-slow-cooker-coq-au-vin
http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/coq-au-vin-recipe.html


http://allrecipes.com/recipe/hasenpfeffer-rabbit-stew/


http://www.instructables.com/id/Sour-Cream-Apple-Pie/?ALLSTEPS


Beef Stroganoff

2 pounds beef chuck roast
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
4 ounces butter
4 green onions, sliced (white parts only)
4 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 (10.5 ounce) can condensed beef broth
1 teaspoon prepared mustard
1 (6 ounce) can sliced mushrooms, drained
1/3 cup sour cream
1/3 cup white wine
salt to taste
ground black pepper to taste

1. 	Remove any fat and gristle from the roast and cut into strips 1/2 inch thick by 2 inches long. 
    Season with 1/2 teaspoon of both salt and pepper.
2. 	In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter and brown the beef strips quickly, then push 
    the beef strips off to one side. Add the onions and cook slowly for 3 to 5 minutes, then push to the 
	side with the beef strips.
3. 	Stir the flour into the juices on the empty side of the pan. Pour in beef broth and bring to a boil, 
    stirring constantly. Lower the heat and stir in mustard. Cover and simmer for 1 hour or until the 
	meat is tender.
4. 	Five minutes before serving, stir in the mushrooms, sour cream, and white wine. Heat briefly then 
    salt and pepper to taste.
	
Notes: Good! 



Eastern North Carolina BBQ Sauce
	
1 cup white vinegar
1 cup cider vinegar
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 tablespoon cayenne pepper
1 tablespoon hot pepper sauce (e.g. Tabasco™), or to taste
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper

Combine in a jar or bottle with a tight-fitting lid. Refrigerate for 1 to 2 days before using so that 
the flavors will blend. Shake occasionally, and store for up to 2 months in the refrigerator.

Notes: Going to start with 1 tsp cayenne and 1 tsp pepper flakes. Will add 1/2 tsp of each (or more) if
needed.	Yes ~1 tsp cayenne and 1 tsp red pepper flakes makes it plenty potent. Only use that last tsp of
cayenne if you want your sauce to be hot!


Brunswick Stew
	
http://allrecipes.com/recipe/get-a-husband-brunswick-stew/

    1 tablespoon olive oil
    1 cup chopped onions
    2 stalks celery, chopped
    1 1/2 pounds ground pork
    1 1/2 pounds ground beef
    1 (3 pound) whole cooked chicken, deboned and shredded
    3 (14.5 ounce) cans whole peeled tomatoes with liquid, chopped
    1 cup ketchup
    1/2 cup hickory flavored barbeque sauce
    salt and pepper to taste
    hot sauce to taste (optional)
    1 green bell pepper
    3 (14.75 ounce) cans cream style corn

Heat the olive oil in a large skillet, and saute the onions and celery until soft. 
Mix in the pork and beef, and cook until evenly browned. Do not drain.
Transfer the pork and beef mixture to a large stock pot over low heat. 
Stir in the shredded chicken, tomatoes and their liquid, ketchup, and barbeque sauce. 
Season with salt, pepper, and hot sauce. 
Place the whole green pepper into the mixture. (Notes: This seems odd...) 
Cook, stirring occasionally, 2 hours, or until thickened.
Stir the cream style corn into the stew mixture. Continue cooking 1 hour, or to desired consistency. 
Remove the green pepper; chop and return to the stew or discard. (Notes: Maybe just chop it up to begin with?)
	
Notes: Pretty good. I made a few modifications, as always. I used 2 chicken leg quarters for chicken meat, as that
was what we had that needed to be used. I used 1 pound each of ground beef and ground pork and about 2/3 of the ketchup
and bbq sauce called for - also 2 cans of creamed corn. The corn kind of disappeared into the stew so I added a can
of corn kernals, which was good. I also threw in some old frozen green beans that needed to be used. 
	
	
Creamy Coleslaw
	
6 cups shredded cabbage
1 cup shredded carrot
1 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup white wine vinegar
1 teaspoon celery seed
1/4 cup sugar (start with half, add more to taste up to full amount)
Salt and pepper

In a large bowl, combine cabbage and carrots. In a smaller bowl, make dressing by combining mayonnaise, vinegar, 
celery seed, sugar, salt and pepper. Toss dressing into cabbage mixture and let chill. Serve in a family style bowl.

Notes: Balance of flavor is good. You can halve the dressing recipe; 1/2 cup mayo, 2T vinegar, 2T (or less) sugar, 
1 tsp celery seed. When I made this I had 8 cups cabbage and still had too much dressing. It's simple and goes together
quickly.


Spicy Black Bean Soup

1 spray(s) cooking spray   
1 medium uncooked onion(s), finely chopped   
4 clove(s) (medium) garlic clove(s), minced   
45 oz canned black beans, undrained, divided (three 15 oz cans)   
1/2 tsp red pepper flakes, or to taste   
1 tsp ground cumin   
14 1/2 oz fat free chicken broth, or vegetable broth   
10 oz canned tomatoes with green chilis   
11 oz canned yellow corn, drained    

Coat bottom of a large stockpot with cooking spray. Add onion and garlic and cook, 
stirring frequently, until onions are soft but not brown, about 5 minutes.

Place one can of beans in blender; add sautéed onion mixture, red pepper flakes and cumin. 
Cover and blend on high until smooth, about 30 seconds. Pour mixture back into stockpot.

Place second can of beans and broth in blender and puree until smooth; add to stockpot.

Stir third can of beans (do not puree first), tomatoes and green chilies, and corn into 
stockpot. Bring to a boil, lower heat to medium and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes. 

Yields about 1 1/2 cups of soup per serving. 

Notes: This is the best black bean soup recipe! It's simple but very satisfying. Since we have
a stick blender we do all of it in one pot. Saute the veggies; add spices, broth and 2 cans of 
beans then stick blend. Lastly add the other ingredients and simmer. Great as a side dish on
Mexican night but is also perfectly suited as a main dish with a quesadilla or corn bread as
the accompaniment. Top with sour cream, green onion, diced jalapeno, diced onion, shredded 
cheddar, etc. Kate originally found this recipe and we make it a couple of times a year.


Curried chicken, West Indian (Guyanese) Style

Chicken legs and thighs - enough to fill half a large stock pot or dutch oven - leg bones are a must have, thigh bones optional
Curry powder - ~ 2.5 tbsp (can be a mix of curry, garam masala, tumeric)
Chicken stock or water - 2 cups
Onion - 1 large diced
Tomatoes - 2 ripe ones, or a can of whole tomatoes will do
Carrots - 3 large diced
Potatoes - 3-4 cut in quarters
Chickpeas - 1 cup
Lentils (optional) - 1/2 cup
Green peas - handful
Shaved Coconut - 1/2 cup unsweetened
Juice of 1 Lemon

In a large pot, over medium-high heat, toss in the chicken parts and brown (no longer pink on outside). 
  I throw in the onions when they are about half browned.

While the chicken is browning, soak the curry powder in a cup of warm water to make it pasty. 
Add the curry to the chicken and pour in stock or water to just cover the chicken. 
Add chick peas and coconut, save peas and potatoes until about 30 minutes before end of cooking.

Cover and simmer for an hour at least. Add lemon juice at the end.

Serve with rice or roti.


Chicken Paprikash (Hungarian recipe from (internet citizen) my mother's family)

In large pot melt 1 stick of butter and add 1 large chopped onion and 1/4 cup garlic.
Stir and cook until onion and garlic are caramelized.
Add in 2 lbs of boneless skinless chicken thighs and brown the outside of the meat.
Add in 6 cups of chicken broth/stock to cover chicken by 1-2 inches.
Bring to boil and reduce to simmer.
Add 1/8 standard spice jar of smoked paprika.
Add 28 ounce can of diced tomatoes.
Simmer until chicken is cooked stirring occasionally to prevent sticking.
Add 16 ounces of sour cream.
Add 1/8 standard spice jar of smoked paprika.
Cook until sauce thickens and chicken has fallen apart, stirring to prevent sticking.
Salt to taste and serve over mashed potatoes or rice.

Takes about 1 1/2 hours from start to finish.


Haluski (Cabbage and noodles in butter)

Boil a pound of egg noodles. 
Slice about half the cabbage into long thin strips. Add kielbasa or other sausage if you'd like. 
Place in dutch oven with a stick of butter. 
Cook at just below medium heat on an electric stovetop for 15 minutes. 
Scrape the bottom of the pot every 5 minutes or so.


Bush's Best Black Bean Salad

    1 can (15 oz) BUSH'S® Black Beans, rinsed and drained
    1 red bell pepper, diced
    1 green bell pepper, diced
    1 yellow bell pepper, diced
    1/2 cup diced red onion
    1 can (15.25 oz) corn, drained
    1 clove garlic, chopped
    1 tsp cilantro
    1/4 cup olive oil
    4 Tbsp red wine vinegar
    1 tsp lime juice
    Salt and pepper to taste
    Tortilla chips

    In a small bowl, combine peppers, onion, corn, garlic and cilantro.
    Add olive oil, vinegar, lime juice and salt and pepper to taste. Add black beans and toss well.
    Serve with tortilla chips.

	
Samosas

http://www.vegrecipesofindia.com/samosa-recipe-punjabi-samosa/



Lebanese Pickled Turnips

    2 cups water
    1 cup vinegar
    2 tsp. salt
    1 beetroot
    Several garlic cloves

Wash turnips well and cut off a slice from the tops and bottoms. 
Slice lengthwise into quarter-inch slices to within a half-inch of the bottom of the turnip. 
  Do not separate the slices entirely from each other. 
Soak in water overnight. Wash well in the morning. 
Place in glass jar with the beetroot, to give color to the pickles. 
Cover with the pickling solution prepared from the above ingredients.

These pickles may be eaten after three days.



Cajun Red Beans and Rice (u/2Cuil4School)

    1lb Red Kidney Beans, soaked overnight in enough water to cover, then drained
    1 tbsp Vegetable Oil
    2 medium Yellow Onions, diced
    1 large Green Bell Pepper, diced
    3 large stalks Celery, diced
    3 cloves Garlic, minced
    14-16oz package Andouille Sausage, sliced thin
    1 tsp Kosher Salt
    1/2 tsp Black Pepper
    1/2 tsp Cayenne Pepper (or more, if you like)
    1 tsp Cajun Seasoning (I like Tony Chachere's)
    1 tsp Dried Thyme Leaves
    2 Bay Leaves
    ~6-8 cups Water

In a large stockpot or dutch oven, heat the oil over medium-high heat until it's shimmering, then add in the 
onions, bell pepper, and celery. Cook for 6-8 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are wilted 
and the onion's going translucent.

Add in the sausage and keep sauteing, stirring regularly, until it starts to take on a little color--4-5 
minutes should do. Add in the garlic and cook for one more minute, still stirring.

Mix in your dried spices and seasonings (salt, pepper, Cayenne, Cajun seasoning, thyme, and bay leaves), 
then pour in the beans and enough water to cover everything completely.

Raise the heat to high and bring the pot to a boil, then reduce it down to achieve a strong simmer and cook, 
partially covered, for about 1.5 - 2 hours, until the beans are very tender. Stir every so often--more regularly 
as the mixture starts to thicken. If, at any point, it looks thicker than you enjoy, add a little water.

If you're like me and enjoy really creamy beans, then take the time to mash anywhere between 1/4 and 2/3 of 
them against the side of the pot with the back of a wooden, or stiff plastic, spoon. Cook another 15-30 minutes 
after that to thicken further, stirring more frequently to avoid burning.

Serve hot over rice (see below), with a bottle of hot sauce at the ready.

Note: Just one note on the rice. Cajun rice isn't steamed like normal, they just throw some rice into a big pot of water 
      (or stock, if you want more flavor) and boil the hell out of it, then strain it. I usually do about 5:1 water to rice. 
	  Throw in some bay leaves and you're set. Souce: I'm the exec chef of a Cajun restaurant (u/crookedplatipus)
	  
	  

Cheesy Butternut Squash Casserole

2 tbsp olive oil
1 large sweet onion, cut into wedges
1 lb butternut squash, peeled and cubed
6 cloves garlic
1/4 tsp salt
1 rotisserie chicken, meat removed and cut into bite-sized pieces
3 eggs
3/4 c. sour cream
1 c. Parmesan cheese
1/2 tbsp dried basil
1/4 tsp black pepper
8 oz. mozzarella cheese

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Preheat skillet to medium. Add oil. Once oil is heated, add onion wedges and saute for 10 minutes or until browned. Stirring frequently.
Add squash, garlic, and salt. Saute another 10 minutes, stirring frequently.
Add chicken; stir.
Remove from heat. Add to greased casserole dish.
Whisk together eggs, sour cream, Parmesan, basil, and black pepper. Pour over chicken and squash mixture.
Top with mozzarella cheese.
Pop into the oven, and bake for 30 minutes or until cheese is browned.

	
	
Cheeseburger Soup (from Anita Brown)

1 pound ground beef
3/4 cup chopped onion
3/4 cup shredded carrots
3/4 cup diced celery
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried parsley flakes
4 tablespoons butter, divided
3 cups chicken broth
4 cups diced peeled potatoes
1/4 cup all purpose flour
3 cups cubed Velveeta cheese – you can add more if you like
1 1/2 cups milk
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/4 cup sour cream

In a  3 qt pan, cook beef until no longer pink.  Drain and set aside.  In the same pan, sauté onion, carrots, celery, 
basil and parsley in 1 tablespoon butter until vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes.  Add broth, potatoes and beef.  
Bring to a boil then reduce heat, cover and simmer for 10 – 12 minutes or until potatoes are tender.

Meanwhile in a small skillet, melt remaining 3 tablespoons of butter.  Add flour and cook until bubbly.  Add to soup 
after potatoes are tender.  Bring soup to a boil and cook and stir for 2 minutes.  Reduce heat to low.  Add cheese, 
milk, salt and pepper.  Cook and stir until cheese melts.  Remove from the heat and blend in sour cream.  Yields 8 
servings.

NOTE: ANITA SAYS THIS SOUP DOES NOT FREEZE WELL.



Tuna Noodle Casserole

10 1/2 ounces cream of chicken soup
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup milk
1/2 cup diced yellow onion
1/2 cup diced celery
6 ounces albacore tuna
6 ounces cooked egg noodles
1/4 cup shredded cheddar cheese
salt and pepper

Mix the cream of chicken, mayonnaise and milk together in a large bowl.
Add the diced celery and onion.
Fold in the tuna, followed by the cooked egg noodles and shredded cheddar cheese.
Salt and pepper to your taste.
Place in a casserole dish. Cook at 375 degrees for about 40-45 minutes, just until the top starts to brown.
	
Notes: I made a double batch using 1 can of cream of mushroom and 1 can of cream of celery soup. 
I added 1 cup frozen peas. You can probably go slightly scant on the mayo, maybe slightly heavy on the cheese. 
It's a really good recipe. Sauteing the veggies at first would be good too. I will try diced carrot instead of 
celery next time. And/or broccoli florets.



martha’s macaroni-and-cheese (smitten kitchen)

8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, plus more for casserole
6 slices white bread, crusts removed, torn into 1/4- to l/2-inch pieces
5 1/2 cups milk
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons coarse salt, plus more for water
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
4 1/2 cups (about 18 ounces) grated sharp white cheddar cheese
2 cups (about 8 ounces) grated Gruyère or 1 1/4 cups (about 5 ounces) grated Pecorino Romano cheese
1 pound elbow macaroni

1. Preheat oven to 375°F. Butter a 3-quart casserole dish; set aside. Place the bread in a medium bowl. 
   In a small saucepan over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons butter. Pour the melted butter into the bowl 
   with the bread, and toss. Set the breadcrumbs aside.

2. Warm the milk in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Melt the remaining 6 tablespoons butter in a high-sided 
   skillet over medium heat. When the butter bubbles, add the flour. Cook, stirring, 1 minute.

3. While whisking, slowly pour in the hot milk a little at a time to keep mixture smooth. Continue cooking, whisking 
   constantly, until the mixture bubbles and becomes thick, 8 to 12 minutes.

4. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in salt, nutmeg, black pepper, cayenne pepper, 3 cups cheddar cheese, and 
   1 1/2 cups Gruyère (or 1 cup Pecorino Romano); set the cheese sauce aside.

5. Cover a large pot of salted water, and bring to a boil. Cook the macaroni until the outside of pasta is cooked 
   and the inside is underdone, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer the macaroni to a colander, rinse under cold running water, 
   and drain well. Stir the macaroni into the reserved cheese sauce.

6. Pour the mixture into the prepared dish. Sprinkle the remaining 1 1/2 cups cheddar cheese, 1/2 cup Gruyère 
   (or 1/4 cup Pecorino Romano), and the breadcrumbs over the top. Bake until golden brown, about 30 minutes 
   (though we needed a bit more time to get it brown, but your oven may vary). Transfer the dish to a wire rack for 
   5 minutes; serve.
   
   
The Food Lab's Ultra-Gooey Stovetop Mac and Cheese

    1 pound elbow macaroni
    Kosher salt
    One 12-ounce can evaporated milk
    2 large eggs
    1 teaspoon Frank’s RedHot or other hot sauce
    1 teaspoon ground mustard
    1 pound extra-sharp cheddar, grated (see note above)
    8 ounces American cheese, cut into 1/2-inch cubes (see note above)
    1 tablespoon cornstarch
    8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 4 chunks

1. Place the macaroni in a large saucepan and cover it with salted water by 2 inches. 
   Bring to a boil over high heat, stirring occasionally to keep the pasta from sticking. 
   Cover the pan, remove from the heat, and let stand until the pasta is barely al dente, 
   about 8 minutes.
   
2. Meanwhile, whisk together the evaporated milk, eggs, hot sauce, and mustard in a bowl until 
   homogeneous. Toss the cheeses with the cornstarch in a large bowl until thoroughly combined.
   
3. When the pasta is cooked, drain it and return it to the saucepan. Place over low heat, add the 
   butter, and stir until melted. Add the milk mixture and cheese mixture and cook, stirring constantly, 
   until the cheese is completely melted and the mixture is hot and creamy. Season to taste with salt 
   and more hot sauce. Serve immediately, topping with toasted bread crumbs if desired.
   

   
Tartar Sauce

3/4 cup mayo
1/2 shallot, minced
2 Tablespoons capers, minced
2 Tablespoons sweet pickle relish
1 1/2 teaspoons vinegar
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1/2 teaspoon black pepper

Mix all ingredients; let stand at least 15 minutes.



Baked Ziti with Sausage

1 (16 ounce) package dry ziti pasta
1 pound mild Italian sausage
1 (15 ounce) container ricotta cheese
1 egg
1 large yellow onion, minced
2 teaspoons minced garlic
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 1/2 (26 ounce) jars spaghetti sauce, divided
1 (8 ounce) package shredded Italian cheese blend
1 teaspoon dried basil (optional)

Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish.
Fill a large pot with lightly salted water and bring to a rolling boil over high heat. 
Once the water is boiling, stir in the ziti, and return to a boil. 
Cook the pasta uncovered, stirring occasionally, until the pasta has cooked through, but is 
  still firm to the bite, about 8 minutes. Drain well in a colander set in the sink.
While pasta is cooking, heat a large skillet over medium heat. 
Add the sausage, and cook and stir until brown, about 10 minutes. Drain sausage and set aside.
Stir together the ricotta, egg, onion, garlic, and oregano in a large bowl until well combined. 
Stir in the drained pasta, the drained sausage, salt, pepper, and 1/2 jar of the spaghetti sauce; mix well.
In the prepared baking dish, cover the bottom with 1/3 jar of spaghetti sauce. 
Layer 1/2 of the pasta mixture, 1/3 jar of spaghetti sauce, and 1/2 of the shredded cheese. 
Then layer the remaining 1/2 of the pasta, 1/3 of the sauce, and 1/2 of the cheese. Sprinkle with basil. 
Cover the dish tightly with aluminum foil.
Bake in the preheated oven until heated through, about 20 minutes. Uncover; return to the oven and bake 
until cheese is melted, 5 to 10 more minutes.

Notes: Quite good. Needs a couple of modifications for success. First, saute onion and garlic with the sausage.
Add another pound of meat; either ground beef, pork, turkey or more sausage. This dish could handle spicy Italian sausage.
Use the listed spices as a minimum, otherwise reviews warn the end result can be bland. I added some dry parsley to the 
spice mixture. I used an Italian cheese mix between the pasta and sauce layers and it was good. I wondered if using a 
more assertive cheese, like asiago, would add some needed flavor. You may want to add a bit of grated parmessan on top 
of your shredded cheese. I think sauteing some peppers and mushrooms with the onion and meat would also produce a good 
result. Overall quite successful but use this recipe as a basic idea and build on the flavors more.



Slowcooker Thai Chicken Curry

1 14oz can coconut milk
1/4 cup peanut butter
2 T red curry paste
2 T fish sauce
3 T lime juice
2 T brown sugar
4 cloves garlic, minced
1/2 cup chicken stock
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp crushed red pepper flakes
1 1/2 pounds chicken breast, cut up
1 red bell pepper, sliced and pre-sauted
 (may as well saute some onion too then)

toppings: cilantro, chopped peanut, green onion

Whisk everything but chicken together in crock pot.
Add chicken and stir.
Cook on low until chicken is done.

Notes: Does the pepper really need to be sauted separately
from everything else? Like I note in the recipe itself, if I'm
going to saute some red pepper I'm adding onion too.


